“All publicity is good publicity” It may have been true at some point, but it certainly is not true today. Nor will it be true forever more.
Instead, the motto has changed to “All Publicity is Abused Publicity”
The reality is that in todays ultra competitive chase to get your attention  , if something you say or do is seen by more than 100 people, someone is going to attempt to  re-purpose it to their own benefit or amusement.
In essence, the internet has put us all under  a form of digital arrest.  
“Everything we say or do, can and will be used for or against you on a website somewhere at some time, from now and ever-more”
There will be someone there with a camera phone to memorialize the mustard that dripped on your shirt from your hotdog and some website will use it to explain how the stress of “fill in the blank” is getting to you.
Someone will keep a picture from your 5th birthday party when your sister dressed you up as a Spice Girl. Your local newspaper will write an article saying how cute it was. Then some website  or tv show, produced by someone who doesn’t like you,  will use it to try to convince their readers that you are gender confused and here is proof that it started at an early age
Silly examples for sure, but real. 
The one thing the internet lacks that will forever change us all is Context.  There is no way to retain context when you cut and paste.  No matter the original intent of the words or pictures, anything on the net probably will find its way into situations for which they were never intended
Publicity, in fact all information used to have a shelf life. Newspapers were relegated to the hassles of microfiche. TV became a box or tape on a shelf somewhere.  You  could find it, but the cost in  dollars and time were  significant. Which  of course  reduced its use.  
Thats no longer the case. Between the internet archives and search engines Everything is Everywhere. Forever. 
The Net is a beautiful, wonderful utility but it certainly not an innocent medium.
The internet has put us in interesting times.
