That’s what  invitation from C. R. Sanderson said. Its also the invitation I had been waiting on for a long time. 
Why ? Because it came from StoresOnline. StoresOnline is a public companythat i have been short in the past, but currently don’t have a position in.  I was short the stock of this company because I always believed that it was a company that specialized in ripping off people who didn’t  know any better with claims of grabbing their “Share of the Billions in Revenue on the Internet”
I wasn’t the only one to question their business model.  There are a long list of people who are questioning Storesonline and how they treat consumers. 
The biggest hurdle that StoresOnline faces, IMHO however, is the battle they have with the state of Utah over whether or not they are a “business opportunity”.
 Storesonline claims they only sell software. Now personally, i have never received an email from a legit ecommerce software company making the above claim.  I haven’t read anywhere else but in my StoresOnline invitation how I can ” learn how half a million people generate income using the Internet !”. Nowhere else do software vendors claim that “Your opportunities to make money are virtually limitless !”    
Does that sound like a business opportunity pitch to you ?
Why is that a big deal ? Because from what I’ve been told, and I dint know all the details, so do your own homework, it looks like Business Opportunities have to register their success and turnover rates with the states. As I understand it, its something to the effect of “what percent of people at least made their money back”
If you have to publish how many customers actually “claimed their share of Internet Billions”, that’s tough on business if it doesn’t work. 
Now some may be saying that since I’m in Texas, that its a whole different ballgame. Except that StoresOnline already has had a run in with the State of Texas.  They settled with the State, but maybe they couldn’t help themselves and had to go after the consumers in this state again.
I guess the best news is, if i call 1-800-373-3090 and give my Reservation ID of U8H-(X6-P, i can get a seat at this “fun, relaxed and informative 90 minute conference” and get a free Lunch or Dinner, a Free Business Organizer, Free Admission and MUCH MORE !”
What a great business opportunity for me, right ?
