I can say without question that this was the most amazing, annoying and difficult deal we have ever done since I bought the Mavs. 
The annoyance. One agent who made a truism of the saying that “no good deed goes unpunished”.  That said, I have nothing but respect and admiration for Devean George. He told me that he would trust his agent as he had done for the last 10 years and take whatever may with that decision. He had the balls to stick to it. Even with people yelling and screaming at him. That said, as I write this, I really have no clue why the agent made the decision he did.
The dirt. Peter Vescey’s ridiculous assertion that Avery asked me to trade Dirk.  Even in the Nellie years where we discussed trading every other player on the roster, Dirk was never mentioned.  There has never been a discussion of trading Dirk during my tenure, EVER.  Vescey’s source is an out and out liar.
The thing about dealing with the media in this business is that they thrive on rumors and get bored with reality.
For example. Several local media outlets had no interest in sending anyone to New Orleans to cover the All Star game or Dirk’s appearance there. That changed once the trade rumors started. Then all of the sudden, every media person they could find was there. Newscasts led with the rumors. Newspapers speculated and comments on the impact of the rumors if true or not true.  There was reporting on rumors about rumors. All of which is fine. I get that and in many many ways, its good for the Mavs and the NBA. It drives interest.
 My job, Donnie and Avery’s jobs include trying to protect the team from those rumors. The fact of the matter is, we are going to “love our team” no matter what.  Every team can be made better with the right deal. We are always going to be opportunistic and try to improve, but we are not going to add any fodder to the rumor mill. Until this deal, we were always able to keep things quiet. To their credit, the NY media takes things to another level, or low, depending on your point of view. 
The difficult. Saying goodbye to Devin, Gana and Trenton. All 3 are great guys in every way. On and off the court. It was far from an easy deal to make. We know that all 3 will continue to grow and get better and like other players we have traded or lost, come back to haunt us in some manner. That comes with every and any trade of players who are talented and work hard at their profession. I also think this will be a great chance for Mo Ager to start fresh. 
The amazing. We think that Jason Kidd will immediately make the other players around him better.  He is a different kind of point than Devin is. There are certain things that Devin does that JKidd can’t. No question about it. That said, through experience and talent, we think JKidd can make the game easier for JET, Dirk , Josh, Damp, Stack and all of our guys and as a result make our team better.The business side.  I think we were stagnating some. I think the spark and excitement that JKidd will bring is more than just what his talent offers.  There is a reason why Kobe and Lebron were lobbying management to bring JKidd in. We think he will recharge the batteries of not just our players, but the organization, fans, media and even merchandise and advertising sales. 
That’s the reality of this business. Wins and losses are not just about talent, its about energy and teamwork.  The best leaders recognize when a spark is needed and are honest enough to admit it, and get it.   Even when things are going well, its sometimes hard to sustain the energy of being a start up or of levels year past.  In business it might be an acquisition, or a sale that may not be the perfect transaction, but its the most impactful. We have been discussing this now for at least a month.  We think this deal will have impact.
I’ve said before this was the best NBA season ever. It just got a little better.
