The Wealth Effect on Individuals suggests that the more wealth people know or feel they have, the more likely they are to spend their money. Which in turn is good for the economy.
I’m no economist. Thankfully. I try to pay attention to what is happening with the economy and create observations based on experience and common sense.  Based on that, I think the Fed is making a big mistake in how they are implementing their Quantitative Easing 2 policy.
Here is why: Companies are not spending money.  Corporate cash balances at public companies are at an all time high.
When People feel like they are getting richer, that wealth doesn’t convey power to the vast majority of the population.  They reward themselves for all their hard work and success with increasing their standard of living.
In today’s world, when companies accumulate cash they feel the exact opposite. A growing cash balance conveys a feeling of power to CEOs.  The more cash in the bank, the more power with in their industry that CEOs feel that they have.  It is not an accident that CEOs refer to their cash balances as a “war chest”.  The more cash a company has , the bigger the industry sledgehammer they have with which to make acquisitions, buy back stock and most importantly increase their own personal wealth through a rising stock price.
Not only does a big cash balance convey power to the CEO, but it also acts as a foundation for a stock price.  Analysts are quick to justify Apple’s stock price by pointing to the fact that 17pct of Apple’s market cap is in cash.  Steve Jobs has been quick to point out that there is no reason to spend their “war chest” because of the opportunity value the cash presents for acquisitions in a  very competitive industry.
Jobs doesn’t chase stock price increases. Most CEOs do. The same personal wealth greed that pushed companies to over leverage (only to be deleveraged) is now pushing companies to aggregate as much cash as possible. With cash you can buy back stock at any time, increasing the company’s stock price and your personal wealth.
With cash in the bank, you don’t have to pay to repatriate cash from overseas . You already have the cash you need.
With cash you can lay off people to increase earnings per share, knowing that if you make a mistake, you have the cash to fix it.
With cash you can borrow all the money you need at barely breathing interest rates.
Companies are not holding on to cash because of fear of political and tax uncertainty. Companies are holding on to cash because of the power it offers and the opportunity to increase personal wealth.
All that cash is sitting in the bank earning NOTHING.  Economists would tell you that if you can earn more from deploying cash than by hoarding it, you should deploy it. Not true. In this age of CEOs, power trumps return on cash every time.
If the Fed thinks that creating money to make it easier for companies to borrow money is going to stimulate the economy, they are wrong.
They are simply making it easier for companies to hoard cash.
What should the Fed do ? I’m not sure the fed can provide the solution. I don’t think they have the authority to encourage or penalize companies into using their cash. The way to get companies to spend their cash is to make it hard for them to spend their “warchests” in manners that only serve to increase their personal wealth.  As i wrote several years ago:
Aug 26th 2008 4:41PM
 
