The Mavs Spurs game last night was another great game. Neither team is seemingly ever out of the game. The reason is simple. Each team has a player that is pure greatness. Watching Dirk is of course amazing. He does thing no other 7 footer can, and often punctuates possessions with a jumper that is so smooth that as the ball falls through the cords, you immediately think of Wesley Snipes line from White Men Can’t Jump: “Pretty, so Pretty”
Tim Duncan may not be quite as silky when it comes to shooting his jumper, but he has certainly earned “The Big Fundamental” nickname. This isnt a guy who gets tons of screens, or who comes off a pick and rolls for most of his points. This isnt a guy who amazes you with quickness or leaping ability. Tim Duncan is a player who more often than not is going 1 on 1 with a defender and knows exactly what angles to take to get the best shot and what angles to use in his shots. If any kid doesnt think geometry applies to basketball, watch Tim Duncan. Tim is the master of precision in angles and motion.
I would be lying if I didnt say that players and coaches in the Mavs organization don’t try to learn from Tim. We do. Every year he, like Dirk, adds something to his game that gives him an edge. Its what all the great ones do. Work hard to do what they do better, and to add something new each year. 
I truly am a Duncan fan, any real NBA fan is. But, Im obviously a Mavs fan first and last and I can’t stand the Spurs. Judging by the Spurs fans reaction to me after the game last night, they aren’t big Mark Cuban or Dallas Mavericks fans either. I like that. Makes for great Rivalries.
So in the interest of helping future NBA players out there, and in maybe helping other teams possibly figure out TD just a little bit, I decided to post a video of the new move that Tim added last year, and has improved on this year. I call it the Duncan Chop. Its perfectly legal, which makes it postiively brilliant.. Its something every post player should add to their game. 
Simply put, as Duncan turns over his left shoulder towards the basket, he “chops” away the defenders arm. It sometimes throws the defender off balance a little. It sometimes misdirects the defenders attention. Its subtle enough to give TD an edge. All in all its a great, great move. We all should learn from it. Here is a video of TD tearing us up with it last year. 
  
  
