I tried to get Joe Walsh’s song, “Life’s Been Good” as the theme song for The Benefactor. I wanted it for two reasons. It was mine and my roommates favorite song in college, and it really sums up how I feel about things since then, and now.
This blog entry is about nothing more than a chance to say thanks to my friends, family and all those who have made my life so special.
Just about every interview I do about The Benefactor, one of the first questions is “why?” Why do the show? It’s as if everyone has a specific image of what someone should do when they have money.For the most part, they can’t believe that it doesnt involve living on an island, playing golf,eating at nice restaurants, and doing as little as is possible.
My response is pretty much the same. I was having a blast before we sold Broadcast.com, and there really wasn’t a reason to change who I was afterwards. Not that my friends would let me.
Which brings me to the catalyst for writing this entry. This weekend I went to the Van Halen concert with a group of friends. Seats up real close. I got to show off a little bit and we went back stage and did a shot of tequila with Sammy before the show. Met his wife and beautiful kids. Went back and watched the concert with 12 of us just jamming like we were 22 years old again.
Except there was a very stark reality among all of us. Our friend’s wife has cancer. It’s life threatening and it’s obviously tearing him apart. His wife is incredibly strong and courageous, she encouraged him to go. It wasn’t until her brother basicallyforced him out the door, that he would actuallygo with us.
During the concert it was hard not to bounce back and forth between the fun that comes from having a beer in one hand, your other hand raised and pumping to the music, and the pain of looking over at our friend, seeing him try to get into the show. Getting caught up sometimes, but more often seeing him drift off. Obviously hurting.
Money is an amazing thing. It can solve problems. It can reduce stress. It can create opportunities. It can’t fix what our bodies won’t let us fix. Talking to our friend just reinforced how much more to life there is.
There is nothingI could buy that could possibly compare with the feeling of partying with close friends. Nights like Saturday night reminded me of the fun I had and have with my friends and my family. Doing the stupidest, simplest things have been the best times of my life.
Nicki, Ray, Mrs Hyde. Get well.I’m thinking of you and never taking a minute of all of this for granted.
BC, MC, LYMFEAEA11DAYS
