Ah, the small annoyances. Over the years I have had reason to have the cell phone number of various celebs, from sports to entertainment to business. One thing you learn very quickly is that they change often. I never really knew why until recently.
Somehow, I gave my cell # to someone who gave my # to someone, who gave my # to a bunch of idiots who like to get drunk and call me at 2 in the morning. Its not really a problem because I use my cell so little and so few people have my number, I know whether to answer the phone by the caller id number. If its not someone I know, i let it go to voicemail. No problem.
Except for some reason , checking my voicemail(which I dont do that often), and every time hearing a string ofmessages from drunk idiots is like hearing a fork on a blackboard to me.Not a lot of thought or entertainment value , they all sound the same. You hear the music, some guy giggling “I just called Mark Cuban”,his buddywith the witty come back of “Cool dude”. Then the challenge that all prank callers must face.. “I got his voice mail should I leave a message” , followed bysome girl chirping “really, its not really his voice voice mail is it…let me hear”. All culminating in one of them yelling “Mavs Suck, Go Spurs”.
It only takes me a second to delete them, but I cant get past it for some reason. Maybe its because Spurs fans are just irritating and rude at all times. (Twice management has called to apologize because of actions of the fans or gameops people, compared to never for any other team. ). Maybe its because I dont want to have to change my number. Im not sure. But it certainly irritates the crap out of me.
So what brought this all up ?
I was going to do a reverse phone number look up on the net for the 3 calls I got tonight. Before I could get there , I ran across a great story written by a lady who got Chris Rock’s phone number after he had recently changed it. It helped take the edge off the mavs’ losing today, and having to listen to drunken spurs fans leave me messages.
 http://www.laurasnyctales.com/current/chris-rock.html
