Tomorrow night Kym and I dance the Jive. this week has been different than the past weeks of practicing in so many ways. We didnt get our song till Tuesday night, meaning we had 6 days. The same as everyone else of course, but dang. Knowing that Monday is going to get here a lot faster than ever before definitely gave me a lot to think about.
But that wasnt the worst part. Jive is easily the most physical of the dances. Just about every step is a jump from the balls of my feet. Not a problem for my right leg. A huge problem for my left. (the hip replacement left the muscles in my leg far weaker than my right).  And not only was all the “action” supposed to be high energy and up, but the basic step is supposed to be knees up with a quick kick that is supposed to end with your foot basically kicking yourself in the butt around bringing my feet together while in the air. Yeah, like thats going to happen..
The mind was strong, but the body was weak. There were steps , or more precisely, technique of steps that i was just not able to do. Worse yet was the practice. By the time we got to a routine I could do, we had to practice it again and again and again. I’m sorry, I don’t care if I was 21 or the 49 years old that I am, practicing the routine 6 hours a day, every day,  is exhausting and I dont want to even explain what the following mornings felt like.
I dont want to sound like Im complaining, but I guess I am. But hey, if Im going to blog , I might as well talk about it all.
So the Jive is not going to be easy for us Monday night. The hope is that all of you that voted for Kym and I will vote again to keep us alive. Your vote is going to be even more important to us Monday because all of Dallas will be watching the Cowboys take on the Bills. The Cowpokes are amazing this season, so Im thinking most Dallasites will not have voting for Mark and Kym as their Monday night priority. Which is another way of saying that I really need everyone’s help to get people’s attention from 7pm to 8:30pm Monday night and to take a break from the game to call 1800 VOTE 411 or for that matter, just call while you are watching the game ! Go to ABC.com at halftime. Email your friends and have them get behind us.. 
As always, thank you for all your support. It really means a lot to Kym and me
