It’s fortunately no secret that HDNet Films and HDNet Movies are leading the charge in collapsing windows all the way to Day and Date releases of Movies in theaters, on TV (HDNet Movies), and soon, on video.
  Our first movie, Enron – The Smartest Guys in the Room, premiered in theaters and on HDNet Movies the very same day. Enron went on to not only get great reviews, but also become one of the highest grossing documentaries of all time.
  HDNet Films next 3 efforts have all been accepted into the Toronto Film Festival (as I write this, I’m on my way there )
 The War Within, (watch the trailer) a tale of a terrorist, intent on avenging the torture and murder of his brother who is smuggled into New York. Saying he has come to find an engineering job, he is invited to stay with the family of childhood friends that had emigrated to the US and had found success and security. Hiding in plain site, he must come decide between his mission, a suicide bombing, and his renewed feelings for his longtime friends.
 The War Within opens in New York and Los Angeles on Sept 30th, and expands across the country the following two weeks. It will also premiere with 2 HDNet Movies showingson Sept 30th. After which it will be exclusively in theaters.
  We also hope to have a special announcementon some extra value for those who buy their tickets for the War Within through our partners. HDNet Filmsis always looking for ways to create value and excitement for our theatrical partnes. Stay tuned!
  Our 2nd Feature is Bubble. Directed by Steven Soderbergh. I’ts a murder mystery set in a small town,centered around 3 people who work in a doll factory. It’s visual. It’s creepy. It’s Steven Soderbergh. A release date hasn’t been set yet. Stay tuned for a lot more information.
The 3rd is One Last Thing, starring Cynthia Nixon. Gina Gershon, Sunny Mabrey, Michael Angarano and Wycleaf Jean. “One Last Thing…” is the funny and heartbreaking story of Dylan and his mother, Carol, as they struggle with the boy’s terminal illness. Invited onto national television by an organization that grants last wishes to dying children, Dylan surprises everyone by making an eyebrow-raising request. As Dylan gleefully prepares to have his final wish fulfille.
This movie isamazing. It’s hysterical, uplifting and heartbreaking.I promise you will laugh and cry. For guys, it’s a movie that will have you laughing out loud . For girls, it’s every bit the chick flick. Which hopefully will make it the perfect date movie for everyone.
I’m incredibly proud of all 3. Each takes on difficult subjects. Each was filmed exclusively in high definition. Each will make you think and have you talking about it not only as you leave the theater, but as you think back about them days later.
  Hopefully everyone will get to see them and let me know what you think!
  But wait, there’s more!
  HDNet Films isn’t our only film company. Todd Wagner, my partner, has an amazing slate coming up from 2929 Entertainment, our more traditional film production company.
  Opening October 7th is George Clooney’s Good Night and Good Luck. (Cinematical Updates) It was a huge award winner at last weeks Venice Film Festival and is already being talked about for this years Oscar nominations.
  Coming this winter is Akeelah and the Bee. A 12-year-old African-American girl (Keke Palmer) overcomes social pressures and her own insecurities to compete in the national spelling bee with the help of a jaded former spelling champion (Laurence Fishburne) and her mother (Angela Bassett).
  Make sure to not miss either!!
  So anyone who says that movies aren’t as good as they used to be.Well you just aren’t paying attention to the right movies!
