In 1995 we started Broadcast.com as AudioNet. In July of 1998 we took the company public.  Within a year, 300 of our 330 employees were worth more than 1mm dollars in Broadcast.com stock.  We became on of almost 300 companies to go public that year.  We were one of about 125 to go public with under $50mm in sales and we became one of the 8k public companies listed on the major exchanges.
The amount of destruction in the IPO and public markets since then and its impact on this country are what can only be described as horrific
Lets go back in time and look at the Entrepreneurial thought process.  I remember my goals and those of my peers very well. Build a great company. Grow it as big and as profitable as you could, with the ultimate goal of not only generating profits, but also taking the company public.
Why take it public ? Because the stock market was a source of cash that could help you grow. It was a marketing and validation opportunity that told customers and prospects you had arrived. It was a liquidity opportunity that while not guaranteed, if you could continue to grow the company over the long haul, would value your company at a multiple of earnings and allow me, my investors (many who were close friends) and my employees to increase our net-worth and cash holdings.
The capital from the public markets could also allow us to retain our independence.  As a public company we not only had our IPO cash, we could go back to the markets for additional offerings.  Keep moving forward towards our corporate goals and the possibilities were only dependent on our ability to execute our plans. Being public, unlike the private markets where every cash raise is a battle over valuation,  we knew exactly how the market was valuing our company.
As a private company the best I could do was take cash out of the business as a reward. That’s not a bad thing. It had worked well in my first company, MicroSolutions.  We never had a losing month and I was able to generate a lot of cash.  But anything I took out was not there to grow the business.  Maybe I took too much out, but we never were quite big enough to go public. Our liquidity event that rewarded me, my partner and our employees came in the form of a sale to CompuServe.  Even though it worked out well, had I been able to take MicroSolutions public, I would have.
So would have every other entrepreneur I knew.  We all wanted to go public. That was how you had a chance to get obscene amounts of wealth. Back then the goal wasn’t to be a billionaire, the term was simply “Fuck You Money” Which was however much money it took to own a private plane and to not have to work again if you chose not to. For all but a few who built huge private enterprises, that goal was only attainable by going public. 
Was/Is that level of greed good ? In my world, those same peers would reward their investors and employees just as I did.  So yes it was. Just as hundreds of my employees attained 7 and 8 figure net-worths, we were not unique. The same happened at many of those hundreds of companies that were going public every year that were able to execute on their business plans.
More importantly, it was a source of drive. It was motivation. Not just for me, but for all of our investors and employees.  We all could see what happened when companies we knew went public. We got to talk to their employees and hear the stories of the amazing wealth they had earned.  For those of us who wanted to achieve a high level of financial success, it made us work even harder.
Fast forward about 16 or 17 years and it had all changed.
It doesn’t matter how or why (I’ve written enough about the SEC, no reason to rehash their ineptitude here, again). What matters is that today’s entrepreneurs do not see taking the companies they have built public as a reasonable or even smart goal.  Instead they want to stay private as long as they possibly can.  They want to raise Series A, B, C, D, E, F, ? until when I’m not sure.
Their reasons are not many.They don’t want the reporting requirements which have gotten more onerous and expensive since we went public (even accounting for the new Reg A+ offerings).  They don’t want to deal with regulators (I can appreciate this one). They hide behind the straw man of not wanting to have to play “the game” of meeting quarterly expectations and hyping the stock to investors.  Neither of which is a requirement of going public. In contrast, ask any entrepreneur these days how much of her time is spent wondering how they are going to raise their next round.
Personally, I think they are wrong.  But it’s their company. Their decision.
Unfortunately the momentum of  the “Stay Private” movement is devastating our economy.
Here is how:
If you have gotten this far into my long-winded diatribe, thank you.  Let me be clear, I’m not religious about any of this. I believe it.  I’m investing in trying to fix it. But like everything else, I am putting it out in public in order to “check my hole card” and get feedback from everyone so I can get a little bit smarter about the whole thing.
 
thanks
m
 
 
