I love that SharkTank is killing it ! Its doing incredibly well and viewership continues to go up. What’s been the most amazing and rewarding is the number of teenagers that watch, and even more incredibly, the number of kids that watch with their parents.
They dont Hulu it. They get together in front of the TV on Friday nights at 8pm EST , tune to ABC and watch and discuss the show.  Try that in front of an IPad or Iphone. And not only do they watch as a family, they even tweet about it as well.  #Sharktank continues to trend as all the Sharks tweet in real time. (And yes, we were the first tv show to do so when we started doing it last season )
As much fun as it is to brag about the show , that is not the point of this post. This post is to provide answers to the questions that I repetitively get about SharkTank. So here we go:
1.  Yes it is our own money that we invest in the deals.
2. We know absolutely nothing other than the name of the entrepreneur when they walk into the Shark Tank. Which is exactly why you see us all start taking notes the minute they start talking  and telling us what they are looking for.
3. We do not have access to computers. So we can not do a search or get any other information about the company or industry. Every thing we know or ask comes off the top of our heads.
4. We don’t get to see the tv packages that you see on the show until the show airs. I personally never watch any advance copies of the show. I see it for the first time when it airs on ABC. It makes the tweets more off the cuff.
5. The pitches that you see are just as we see them.  The entrepreneurs don’t get any do overs. If they screw up , they screw up and the show must go on. Some have freaked out, and we try to calm them and get them back on track.
6. The pitches and the Q&A can go on for anywhere from 20 minutes for a deal everyone hates to more than an hour for a deal everyone is competing for.  The producers then cut it down to what you see on air
7. The Sharks like each other away from Shark Tank, but when we are competing for deals, we are really competing. We get mad at each other. None of us like to lose deals to the others.
8. The pressure in the SharkTank is off the charts. The Sharks feel it. The entrepreneurs feel it and sometimes get caught up in it. That sometimes leads  the entrepreneurs to “embellish”  details of their business. This is why we do due diligence after the show.  It can sometimes be  very, very difficult for the entrepreneurs to not get caught up in trying to get a deal. Its our job to catch any mis statements when we do our drill downs after the show.
9.  Yes Kevin is always exactly the way he is on the show.
10. We all absolutely love doing the show
