Now that my ban on bloggers in the locker room has been lifted by the NBA , the “Joes” of the blogger world will have the same access as the “Pros”. Those that get paid. I can’t wait to see the results.
The people who have complained and dismissed the blogger ban the loudest are those that have the most to lose. They are the ones getting paid. If the unwashed blogging masses have some masters among them, who knows what could happen to the balance of power in the sports media world.
Of course, my preference had been to avoid having to make any qualitative decisions about which bloggers should be in or out of the locker room. Since that is no longer possible,  I’m happy to share my feelings about the state of the sports blogosphere. 
What sports blogging has become, in most cases, is the internet equivalent of Talk Soup or VH1’s “Best ….. ” series. On Talk Soup a host throws out witty comments about some TV show. On VH1, a series of guests throw out their comments about some video relevant to the show’s topic. If it is witty enough, the show draws an audience. 
On the net, the most popular sports  bloggers do the exact same thing. They troll the net looking for other people’s work and then  throw out some witty comments or a simple rant to complement a link to that work.. Or they sit in front of the TV and throw out posts/comments about the game. 
I’m not saying that there isn’t a market for this. There is.  Just as there is a market for Talk Soup on E!, and all the Vh1 shows. It even takes talent to be able to be witty and hold an audience, whether its on TV or online. But, the talent and the success from that talent doesn’t require access to the locker room. 
The people that complained the loudest about the ban, really didn’t have a good reason to be in the locker room. And from what I can tell, non of their readers complained that their blogs suffered in any way shape or form when they didnt have access to the locker room.
Rather, they did the smart thing and used the ban to promote themselves. Which is fine by me. I hope it drove them a ton of traffic.
So I invite any blogger to post samples of their work here as a comment. if its good, and I am the only judge, then you will get an email invite to get credentialed to cover a game in Dallas (its up to you to get there). I don’t care if you work for a major company, or are in 8th grade. All will be given equal access.
Just as I did with  Ben Collns. I think I gave him his first shot to write for the Mavs website when he was 13.  If you can write, you deserve the same opportunities to communicate about the Mavs as someone who works for ESPN, a major newspaper or network.  In the blogging business, the Joes can be better than the Pros.

