If you are an HDNet subscriber, you already know that HDNet is heavy into Mixed Martial Arts.
MMA has been a staple of our Friday night lineup and this past October we launched HDNet Fights with our first event at the American Airlines Center in Dallas. In November we launched the first News and Information show dedicated to MMA, Inside MMA which airs every Friday at 9:30pm and 1:30 EST The response has been so strong , we have decided to ramp it up even further.
Our next live event is HDNet Fights Reckless Abandon. Its going to be December 15th at the American Airlines Center. You can see the card here. its led by Mayhem Miller vs Tim Kennedy. Not only is this going to be a great rematch, but in the know MMA fans will recognize that Tim Kennedy is an IFL fighter. This is the first of hopefully many unified fights that we put together. 
Also headlining will be MMA legend Frank Trigg vs Edwin Dewees. This along with the entire card look to be fullon.
Those of you who can make it to Dallas and the American Airlines Center can click here for tickets and as an extra bonus, the sponsor of the event, Rob Zombie’s Halloween, will be giving away a free Halloween DVD to all who attend, BEFORE its available in stores. For those who can’t make it , you can catch it all LIVE on HDNet, 
HDNet Fights is just the beginning of the live MMA fun in December. 
Just yesterday we announced that HDNet will be broadcasting the IFL World Grand Prix Finals on December 29th, 9:30 EST LIVE from the Mohegan. No question it will be a great event.
Last, but certainly not least ,HDNet Fights and HDNet just announced a deal with M1, you can read the details below:
HDNET FIGHTS: FEDOR EMELIANENKO TO FIGHT LIVE ON HDNET!
 
“Inside MMA’s” top ranked heavyweight, and the undisputed #1 pound-for-pound fighter in the world, Fedor Emelianenko returns this New Year’s Eve on HDNet Fights
 
 
DALLAS (December 7, 2007) – Andrew Simon, CEO of HDNet Fights, announced today that HDNet will feature the man considered by many to be the greatest fighter in any weight-class, Fedor Emelianenko in a LIVE bout from Japan only available in the United States on HDNet.
 
“HDNet Fights: Fedor Returns” will air LIVE on Monday, December 31 on HDNet.
 
This LIVE broadcast is made possible by a partnership between M-1 Global and HDNet Fights.
 
 “Today’s announcement with M-1 Global/Fedor clearly demonstrates that HDNet Fights is committed to working on a unified basis to deliver the best fighters and the best fights,” said Simon. “HDNet is clearly becoming the home for MMA action and this amazing LIVE event featuring the return of Fedor is our holiday present to HDNet Fights fans. We are working hard every day improving HDNet Fights and this is a great first step in the process.”
 
Mark Cuban, owner of HDNet Fights said, “This announcement reinforces our commitment to becoming the home for LIVE MMA action. No one else but HDNet will have the return of Fedor LIVE from Japan. On December 15th, we’ll also have HDNet Fights: Reckless Abandon LIVE from Dallas featuring superstars Jason “Mayhem” Miller and Frank Trigg and then we’re ending the month halfway across the world in Japan with the return of the world’s best fighter – Fedor. What could be better?”
 
“Once again, M-1 Global’s commitment to working with others has produced major results as MMA fans throughout the U.S. will be able to watch heavyweight sensation Fedor Emelianenko compete live on New Year’s Eve on HDNet,” said M-1 Global CEO Monte Cox. “The Yarennoka event in Tokyo features a stellar lineup of fighters and will cap the year with Fedor in the main event.” 
 
Mitchell Maxwell, Chairman of M-1 Global, stated, “We’re elated to be working with Mark Cuban and HDNet. Mark is a big fan of Mixed Martial Arts and Fedor. Our partnership in bringing this Japanese event live to the US meets our mission of promoting the sport and its athletes worldwide.” 
 
For more information on HDNet Fights, please visit www.hdnetfights.com.
 
MEDIA CONTACT
Colette Carey
303-542-5576 (office)
303-875-7275 (cell)
ccarey@hd.net 
 
###
 
 
HDNet Fights (www.hdnetfights.com) is one of the leading Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) organizations in the country. Founded by Mark Cuban, HDNet Fights promotes, produces and airs over 24 live MMA events annually for broadcast on HDNet. HDNet Fights is unique as a unifying force in the MMA industry partnering with leading promoters, including M1, Sportfight, IFL, Ring of Combat and others to offer the quality match-ups and productions that MMA fans demand.
 
Founded in 2007, HDNet Fights is led by CEO Andrew Simon while company 
operations are handled by Dallas MMA legend and former UFC champion,
Guy Mezger.
 
HDNet (www.hd.net) is the home for HDNet Fights and is the leader in offering live MMA broadcasts and the leading news and information show for MMA fans, “Inside MMA”. 
 
In addition, HDNet provides viewers with the best in original news, sports, music and entertainment programming. From “Dan Rather Reports”, to championship sports coverage from the NHL, NASCAR and Major League Soccer to “Guys Night In” every Friday and the HDNet Concert Series every Sunday, HDNet offers great programming with the world’s best picture quality.
 
Launched in 2001 by Mark Cuban and General Manager and COO Philip Garvin, the HDNet networks are available on AT&T, Bright House Networks, Charter Communications, DIRECTV, DISH Network, Insight, Mediacom, Time Warner 
Cable, Verizon and more than 40 NCTC cable affiliate companies. For 
more information visit www.hd.net.
 
If you don’t already have HDNet, call your local cable, satellite or video provider and order it today!
 
 
