Thanks to Bob Young for writing what we all were thinking…
 http://www.azcentral.com/sports/cheapseats/0527p2main0527.ht…
for more reference…
 http://www.blogmaverick.com/entry/7817259725070137/
and to add to the data at the bottom of the above post, in this last game that Bob Young writes about, there were 4 free throws shot in the first half. All by Shaq.
Minnesota didn’t shoot their first non-tech free throw until Wally took 2 with 4:31 to go in the 3rd quarter…
and for a little more…
 http://www.blogmaverick.com/entry/6314322554475298/
and Flip Saunders says the crew missed 33 calls in Game 3…
 http://sports.yahoo.com/nba/news?slug=knight-tompowerskgneed…
and just for more fun from a previous blog entry, since it is relative to Bob Youngs column….
“The game last night game came down to the final shot. Sac had a foul to give. Their coach tells the players to foul with 3 seconds left. We know it.The players know it.Everyone on our bench knows it. It’s basketball strategy 101. How in the world could the officials not know it? Peja intentionaly fouls Dirk. They don’t call it. “
And not to say thatI was paying attention to this issue before…. but this is from an AP reporter overhearing me referencing a previous conversation I had with our media guys prior to this game starting….
“Frustrated by how the first quarter was called by official Dan Crawford and crew, Mavs owner Mark Cuban screamed to the scorer’s table, “What did I tell about Crawford? Terrible.” Maybe it worked  the Kings didn’t have a free throw in the second quarter. … “
Just for clarification, my comments didn’t have an impact, I was referencing my observations of Mr. Crawfords style of officiating and the lack of free throws in the 2nd quarter, regardless of team, confirmed it for this game.
Finally, I do have to give credit where credit is due, and disagree with Bob Young on 1 item in his column. The officials are finally calling travelling. Starting with our game against Sac, they have rediscovered the ability to see players shuffle their feet and switch pivot feet. The world has not collapsed and the players seem to have adjusted nicely. Anddads everywhere are breathing a sigh of relief not having to explain to littly johnny and sally why they can’t do that in their games….
What does this all mean? Not a darn thing because it obviously is complete coincidence…..
