Its only 1 game. We hopefully have more than 100 to play this year. But what a great way to start the season. Who cares if its 4am and we just got to Utah and I know I wont be able to sleep for awhile. I hope the guys can.
We didnt do a whole lot right the first 3.5 quarters. We didnt seem comfortable at all. It wasnt completely suprising. The Suns run and gun style is at a gear higher than anything the Mavs have done over the past 5 years, so its hard to prepare for and takes some time to get used to.
Big time Kudos to Darrell Armstrong (or BC as he prefers… dont ask), for coming in and providing a huge energy and veteran spark. BC told me last year that his goal was at least 2 charges per game, no matter how many minutes he played. He got em last night and they were the turnovers we needed. BC knows how to play. He got the ball to Dirk and JT where they needed it and both came through. DIrk hitting 3-3 3pointers in the 4th. KVH ,now officially known as Keith Van Halen for makingeveryone on the bench ‘Jump’ with that big 3 (Ok, he actually got that name when he was guarding David Lee of the Knicks in preseason :), and JT realizing he couldnt be stopped and could get to the basket whenever he wanted, turned the light bulb on . Then the defense took over.
An insider note. The thing our guys noticed in the first OT, their guys seemed more tired than we were. Maybe because it was the first game. Maybe it was our imagination. Maybe it was making their defense work with longer offensive possessions. Will know for sure when we get our stat. But it gave us some confidence in OT.
What a funnight.
We win. I get to wear my blue sportscoat again for the first time since 1992. You know how everyone has a closet with stuff you pretty much forgot about, but never got around to throwing or giving away ? Well completely by accident I noticed the coat , and decided to have some fun. Now i have to decide whether to wear it again, do it again with another jacket…..or come up with something new.
Only downer of the night was listening to the idiots on TNT after the game. Its not unusual if we win a TNT game for us to turn it on in the locker room and hear what Charles, Kenny and co have to say. They havent gotten any better.
Let me just say this. There is a reason why Kenny and Charles havent gotten head coaching jobs. THere is more to running a team these days then thinking you know what you are talking about. Kenny, if you want to bust on us for switching on the pick and roll, get some stats to back it up. We track conversion rates on everything we do. High pick and roll, elbow pick and roll, whatever, we track it. If its not working Kenny, we adjust. I know that is probably a new concept to you and Charlie B, but thats the NBA of 2006. With all that money you guys make (hey if you are going to talk salaries, lets see how you like it), go out and hire some kids to track what actually happens in a game rather than having TNT bring in kids to go out and get donuts.
Here is a little test. How many deflections did we have last night versus our season average last year. Do you remember what a deflection is guys ? Its a nice indicator of defensive effort.
And rook..I mean Reggie Miller. Remember this rook. Every year TNT brings in the guy who was good, but retired last year, and puts them in that same seat you were sitting in. You may have noticed that they arent there any more. Do something more than just try to be another guy who tries to fit in and trade nonsensical barbs with the boys. Charles has earned the right to be the comedian who has some insights. Kenny wants to be the coach, but wont do the work, so never will be more than a sidekick. Rook, you need to add some value, or in a few weeks we will see someone else sitting in that seat. Maybe Derrick Coleman can come in and give us a Whoop De Damn Do…
But I digress. After listening to some of the idiocy, we just turned it off.
