It’s going to be a big week! The Mavs start their comeback against the Kings. We have a screening for Godsend in Vegas at the Palms….I can only hate Joe, Gavin and Phil for as long as they hate me about 48 minutes of game time then it’s about the fun, and we are going to have fun Wednesday at the Palms with the Godsend showing in their Brendan Theater at 7:30pm.
Then Godsend opens up everywhere this Friday!!!!! Talk about a new and different experience. It’s going to be fun hearing what people think about the movie.
Also fun was the Godsend premiere in LA this week. It’s a whole new world for me. It’s fascinating to contrastthe sports and movie worlds. The sports world is always about what are you going to do next. Sports reporters want to get the story about the game over and done with as quickly as possible so they can bug the hell out of you about what you are going to do next. They will ask you the same damn question over and over. Are you going to sign/resign/hire/fire XXXXX. That’s 90 pct of the questions I get, and it’s ridiculous because if I do anything, it’s immediately available to everyone at the same time. So why not ask a question with some substance? Then I realized how lucky I was that I only had to put up with annoying repetition of questions.
At the premiere of Godsend this week, I watched Rebecca Stamos deal with the same type of stupidity but at a level that made me realize and appreciate how little I have to deal with.
The premiere was typical. Lots of paparazzi. It was cool to walk down the red carpet with my wife and Todd Wagner, my production partner. Cameras flashing, people screaming your name to look at them for pictures. But it was a pittance compared to what happened when she came by. My goodness. The questions probably would have had me jumping over the ropes to knock someone out. Personal. Personal. Personal. She handled it like a champ. Laughing off questions she didn’t want to answer and being incredibly gracious with her time. Of courseI was only watching every step she took because I was curious how she would deal with the media. It was purely an intellectual exercise. I had to refer to the physics classes I didn’t take to wonder how she fit in that dress… But I digress.
Watching a Hollywood star takea walk down the red carpet on TV doesn’t compare with seeing it in person. Watching how Rebecca handled herself with the media left a lasting impression that I will conjure up to calm myself when I’m getting annoyed by the sports media.
After the red carpet, we got our seats and I got to see the final cut of the movie. I really liked it, and am very proud of what Todd, Nick Hamm and the crew and cast put together. This isn’t a movie that was done for critics, and I’m sure we will get bashed by some simply because it definitely plays to scares and the thriller aspect of the movie. My most trusted critic, my wife, really liked it, and like she says, that’s all that matters!
Naturally, since I’m competitive in business, the talk turned to betting on what we thought the movie would gross our opening weekend…My number was 7mm.
Go see the movie and let me know what you think!
