With all thediscussion on the blog about Naked Shorting, much of which was more like a spy novella than a market discussion, I have gotten too many emails asking what my positions in the market are.
First, the disclaimer. Do your own research. None of the mentions are endorsements or suggestionsfor you to trade the stocks I have positions in. Although I believe that stocks are marketed and sold, with the louder the shouting about a financial instrument, the more movement it has, this is not to be considered “getting long and loud, or getting short and shouting”.
I am not going to give more than 1 sentencereasons why I have taken a position. I have also excluded positions in which I am now effectively marketneutral due to hedging.
Longs
LGF – The only indie film library available, willing to leverage new media for revenue
RENT – Only independent source advertisers can use for tracking Video on Demand and Online Video on Demand
NSIT – Good company I have owned pretty much since they came public
SIGM – Chipset powers High Definition playback devices that allow for connection of USB hard drives and supports leading High Def codecs
GRU – Lots of traffic, that if they can monetize and keep costs very low could lead to nice cash flow
TCOW.OB – Good management, low PE, sells to growing market segment.
Shorts
IOC – Appears to have cash issues.
IIG – I don’t like companies that sell products that consumers shouldn’t buy. It catches up at some point.
Short Pairings
Long – NFI , NFI Puts, Short – NFI Preferred, stock loaned for rebate
The stock is tough to borrow, the preferred wasn’t. If the company craters as some suggest, the preferred and puts will make me money. If it doesn’t, asothers suggest, the dividend and the stock loan premium, which paid the costs of the puts and the interest on the preferred, should make me a little money. The volume around the stock created the opportunity.
There you have all of my trading positions.
Please don’t email me and ask me why. Do your own homework and make your own decisions.
