Thanks to Andrew Sullivan for posting Michael Kinsleys challenge toPresident Bush’s desire to privatize Social Security. I personally couldnt think of anything more threatening to our future, or more likely to cause economic calamity of the highest order.
Before I post Mr Kinsleys challenge, let me define my fear, and some anecdotal evidence to support that fear.
The Presidents plan in simplistic terms, is to allow all of us taxpayers to take a small portion of our socialsecurity contributions and invest that money as we see fit. The premise is that by investing in things that theSocial Security Fund cant , each of us can earn greater returns and better protect our financial future. 
Wrong.
Of course, with the search for greater returns, comes greater risk. Now I always thought that the Social Security program itself was designed to protect us from ourselves. That those of us who might be able to save, didn’t save enough to protect us at retirement, and those of us who were never in a position to save, had a fallback that we as a nation all contributed to.
Along comes the Presidents proposal which kind of flips the logic. Now the admission is no longer that we asindividuals can no longer save money, its that we as a country can no longer save money. Our politicianswhomight have been able to save moneyin better times, didnt. As a result, as a country it appears that wewill be unable to meet our future obligations for Social Security.
Rather than shaving off all the pork we feed our politicians, and beyond in order to create funding to meet ourobligation, the President has decided to relinquish part of the obligation back to us, in hopes that each of us makemore than the government could, and pay for more of our own, and our childrens future. To put it another way,keep some of your social security contributions and play the financial markets lottery.
In his challenge, Mr Kinsley correctly describes why it wont work. Let me give you two examples why its evenworse than he describes.
1. Our Pension System
In the first example, as described so well by the NY Times, when companies were given the chance to makeinvestments to meet their obligations to their pensioners, they were unable to do so. They had the option of takingon more risk, or playing it safe. They took on the risk and lost. True, there was the inherent use of pensionaccounting to scam wall street on earnings, but when it was all saidand done, when corporations took on the jobof investing for the financial security their retirees, they were unable to do so. They are now turningto thegovernment funding of The Pensions Benefit Guaranty Corp with the expectation of being bailed out.
If the experts that run our pension system had the expectation of financial protection bythe government ifthey failed, do we really think that all of us wont have the same expectation ? Does anyone really believe that thepoliticians later in this century wont latch on to “protect the unfortunate who fell prey to former President Bushs’misguided Social Security bailout ?” as a means of buying votes ? And each and every one of us knows it andwill think it when we make our choice of “investments”. Why not go for the jackpotif you know thatwhenyou hit 70 you will be reimbursed?
2. The First Command FinancialScandal
What our President fails to realize is that we wont choose where we invest that money.
We will be marketed to, and sold financial products by companies who want that money. Buy media andbrokeragestocks if this change happens. We will be inundated with more dumbass commercials about how thisbroker from this firm and that firm wants to help secure our future. Translated, they know we are suckers with themoney burning a hole in our pockets and they are going to make a fortune in commissions on us. There will be so manyscams there wont be enough pages in the Wall Street Journal to cover them.
In the First Command scandal, our government couldnt prevent thousands and thousands of military personnel frombeing sold an investment vehicle that took HALF their first year contribution and paid it to First Financial incommissions !. Not only is it obscene in principal, but financially, that first year money will growthe most from compounding of whatever interest or gains that might occur. So they robbed the people who we entrust toprotect our country TWICE. Personally, I think the principals at that company deserve to be in jail for a long, longtime. Instead the were fined $12mm dollars. Whoever at the SEC or NASD settled for those fines is gutless, spinelessand hasabsolutely no conscious. Hopefully its still possible for criminal charges to be filed against thoseslime and someone will step in and do so.
Those in the military who allowed them to walk in the door and ripoff our servicepeople deserve punishmentas well. No onein command should be that stupid.
IF privatization occurs, commissions, marketing fees and every other service and corporate fee tht can be inventedare going to be squeezed from us. The last time I looked, I didnt pay commission on my social security contribution.I didnt pay asset management fees. I didnt pay for commercials of brokers and their clients staring lovingly at eachother telling me the beauty of investing in oil futures.
Here is another way to look at how bad it will be.
In absolute dollars our social security contributions are not that high. The percentageavailable back to us,far smaller. So we wont be able to buy that much of whatever financial product we are being sold. So ourcommission per transaction will be high. The highest of any customer most likely.Our commissions and fees as a percentage of our savings will be high. Ten bucks a trade. 1 or 2 percent asset management fee. Its real money.
We will pay a lot and the actual amount of money that shows up on your statement is going to be a lot less than what it would have been if you just let the government keep it ! Your money wont have to earn more than the treasuries the government buys. You are going to have to be such a wise investory, that you have to earn more than treasuries after commissions and fees eat up 2, 3, 4 or more percent. Face it, you probably are going to lose money on that account compared to what the government could have gotten !
Of course your brokerage or fund wont tell you that. But thats a minor detail.
Lets face the facts. Our military couldnt prevent its soldiers from scams. Our soldiers couldnt protectthemselves. Our pensioners couldnt trust their former employers from playing to wall street and taking morethan reasonable risk, knowing that they could be bailed out.
What makes us think its going to be any different for most of us ? Sure, some of us will use the money and getsome better returns, but we are already making better use of our savings and probably need the opportunity to invest our social security the least.
My bet is thatthe people who need the money the most, will take the greatest chances and will be sucked drythe fastest. Why wouldnt they take more chances? Its found money. They have every reasonable expectation that the government will bail them out if they dont strike it rich.
Here is Michael Kinsleys challenge. Read it. Email it and fax it to your senator and congressman. Forward copiesto friends. Its your family’s future at stake
A BLEG FROM KINSLEY: My old boss and friend, Mike Kinsley, now running theeditorial pages at the Los Angeles Times, poses the following conundrum, which he invites any of you to refute. Yep,he’s a big media guy turning to blogs for an answer. Write responses to him at michael.kinsley@latimes.com. Here’shis argument:

