Sorry for the lack of posts recently. Laptop died in Miami and sitting in an internet cafe didnt appeal to me.
  I have this saying that Right is its own Defense. I actually got it off a tshirt i bought about 20 years ago.
  In this day and age, every one wants to categorize you and then make you defend yourself.
  Im <fill in the blank> owner of the Dallas Mavericks. How can I be <fill in the blank> Why cant I be like <fill in the blank>
  We are starting a website that focuses on uncovering corporate crime. I have every intention of trading on the information uncover, and disclosing exactly what i do. The ultimate transparency.  A journalism professor was quoted as “not being able to get his mind around it ” Others have criticized me for having a good idea but “ruining” it by trading on the information.
  HDNet is talking to Dan Rather and we hope to do a deal where he produces a show that uncovers news. Information with a payoff. Some people have already decided that working with Dan alone defines positions we will take in our programming. Of course we have a 5 year history of news features already with World Report, but why let that get in the way.
  For some reason the thousands of people send me emails and many others are writing stories about any or all of these things. Its as if they expect something to change. That they have a lock and key on what is right.
  Well lets be clear. Right is its own defense. Im going to do what I think is right. Period end of story.
  You may not like that i want the officiating in the NBA to get better. I think its the right thing to do.
  You may not like that I will trade on information we uncover and then publish it. I think reporting what we find is better than not reporting it. If we can uncover fraud. Thats a good thing. That profiting on the information we find is the smart thing to do. It beats the hell out of trying to remake the site every year to maximize advertising or subscriptions. It changes the newsenomics, which need to be changed.
  You may think you know what Dan Rather and HDNet will do together. But you dont. You have no idea. I will tell you that there wont be any corporate considerations. No earnings per share issues. No worries about advertisers and what they might think.
  Right is its own defense.
