I love seagate products, but what genius designed the packaging for their 6gb Pocket Hard Drive ? THe drive came packaged in one of those impregnable plastic shells (see picture in link above) that makes it look pretty on retail shelves but impossible to open once you buy it.
What is the logic behind making a product impossible to open once you buy it ???????
I bought the thing so my wife could backup all her digital pictures at home andon her parents computer at their home. Plus i thought it would be nice for her to be able to plug it in at her friends house and show off the pics of our beautiful daughter.
I went from the considerate husband to asking for bandaids.
I got home. Took the pair of small scissors I keep at my desk and gave it a shot. The result was deeper impressions in the skin of my fingers than progress on the plastic.
Next was the “big scissors” we keep in the storage closest with various office supplies. No finger problems, but they could only make a small incision into the surface of the packaging.
Now my manhood was at stake. If i cant puncture a plastic package…well. You get the picture.
So into the kitchen i went for “THE KNIFE”. Not a butter knife. Not a steak knife. Its THE KNIFE that you know you have and when you see it in the kitchen you think to yourself:
“Ok, if someone ever breaks in the house, this is where i go and I grab THE KNIFE and I protect my family as the slashing sounds from Psycho play through my head”
thats THE KNIFE i grabbed.
I sliced, I diced, i cut, i sawed. I broke the skin just enough to squeeze my fingers in hoping to pry apart the jaws of plastic that had intruded into my simple goal of helping out my wife. Unbeknownst to me, this was no passive plastic that gave up once the shield of its defenses were broken. Oh no. This was the payback plastic. The kind that wanted you to carry a reminder of the plastic battle you fought and fought.
The plastic drew first blood. My fingers went in, and I swear I heard it laugh milliseconds before it punctured me in a far more precise manor than i could ever inflict on it. Paper cut my ass. This was a plastic cut. Quick. Deep. Bloody.
Bloodied, but not beaten, i went back to the big scissors and finally managed to break down the plastic to the point where it could no longer put up a fight and could be ripped to shreds.
I had won. Not without a fight. Not without a scarred reminder of the battles fought.
As i basked in my victory, a thought came to mind.
WHO THE FUCK DESIGNED THE PACKAGING ON THIS THING AND WHY DO THEY STILL HAVE A JOB !!!!!
Damn you and any other product manager who thinks wrapping inpenetrable plastic around a product is a smart move. It isnt
