Im used to getting emails from fans claiming the NBA is this or that. The NBA wants a team to win based on market size. The NBA doesnt want me to win because the league doesnt like me. So and so has money on the game. The NBA makes more money when the series goes 7 games.
 Its all nonsense. Any prudent, rational person can easily see it. The games are not rigged. Thats a complete insult to the players on the court and the incredible amount of effort they put into preparing for and playing the games. All 82 regular season and post season games. The NBA couldnt rig the games if it wanted to. And it doesnt want to. Its that simple
  Do i like that i have gotten more than 12,000 emails in the last week and probably 80pct have questioned some level of honesty. No, I hate it. I hate it more than you will ever know because these are my customers, NBA customers, who are questioning our enterprise. Thats never a good thing and each one is a business hole I have to work harder to dig us out of.
  Do I wish there was better communication from the league ? Yes. I dont like when my email box fills up with nonsense. Yes. I wish the league would just come out and explain events that occur in a game to the public. I think it would help the perception of our game. I think it would help fans better understand not only the rules of the NBA, but also the nuances, strategies and challenges of the game. I have suggested it. Many others have suggested it.
  Getting an explanation pretty much eliminates everyones ability to question what just occured. Some media people have suggested that the same approach that MLB takes would work well. Simply allow reporters to ask officials questions after a game. Why not ?
  Count me as a person who thinks transparency is a good thing in business. But this isnt my business. Im simply one of 30 shareholders.
  Two other things. Apparently the Miami Herald is reporting i screamed at the NBA comissioner after the game the other night. Didnt happen. Didnt say a word to the man. Not a single word. And that was absolutely by intention.
  Apparently this “reporter” has written he has several “sources”. Well they must be the same sources the tabloids use to find two headed babys and aliens, because it didnt happen.
  Ive already blogged about and been fined for the source of my displeasure in these playoffs and there was absolutely no reason for me to say another word about it and i wont.
Back to the same “reporter”. He references the play call that led to Wades 2 free throws. Well there is a picture being sent around showing Devin Harris’s arm on DWades shooting arm. Well beyond not knowing if the contact was more than incidental, there is one thing we do know. It occured AFTER the whistle blew. Notice DWade up in the air, more importantly notice his eyes closed and Dirks hand no where near his back, and no real chance to get placed on his back, which is what triggered the whistle. This was at the end of the play. After the whistle blew.
  Chalk up some more great reporting to the Miami Herald. The source of phantom comments. The source where I first learned that I owned a boat and had it docked in Miami  (BTW, the story referenced above still isnt corrected. Way to stand for accuracy folks)
  To the executives of the Miami Herald.
  Dear Mr, Mrs or Ms Publisher.  I am the easiest person in the world to get a hold of. My email is everywhere. If you want to know if i have a boat BEFORE you write that I do. Just ask.
  If you want to know if or what I said to someone. Just ask.
  Going to a source. Isnt that Journalism 101 ?
  You are also the reason Im thankful for this blog. In the old days I would have had to make the rounds of media, doing my best to discredit your efforts. Now I can just write this blog, link and let your work discredit itself. Which is a whole lot more fun.
  One Last Last Note:  Im a competitive person. My blog is an outlet for that intensity. I dont blog about the normal things in my life that make up 99pct of my day. I like to blog about things that get me fired up in the Sport of Business. The things i get fired up about. Ive been accussed more than once of having HID (Hyper Intensity Disorder….ok, i just made that up, but if it were truly a disease, I would claim that I had it). Not everyone likes that

