This press release got a ton of attention. Warner Bros and Bittorrent announce revolutionary deal.
This deal was revolutionary. No question about it. Not because WB wants to use bittorrent type technology to distribute content. Using Peers and Seeding to reduce bandwidth costs is nothing new at all. Ive been an investor in Redswoosh.net for a while now. Im a believer.
What is shocking is that Warners didnt take the time to see what happens at the bittorrent.com site.
On the very site with their press release, bittorrent.com has a search engine. A torrent search engine. Mission Impossible 3, Scary Movie 4, you name it, its there. I downloaded their client, and as I sit here, its not fast, but its downloading.
Now I did have to go through some interesting chinese porn to get Scary Movie 4, but i got there.
Im a big fan of the technology, but using Warner Brothers content and a press release to promote a search engine that takes you to wonderful sites like piratebay , ep8.net, and worse probably isnt the smartest business move on WBs part.
And what was bittorrent thinking ? How stupid can you be to go out and brag about signing a deal with a major content provider while leaving an open door to everything they are trying to protect against on the home page of your website with the press release? Someone over there needs their head examined.
So to summarize, the movie industry spends millions upon millions to ty to stop piracy and train consumers into thinking that piracy is wrong. Along come Warners and Bittorrent. They sign a deal and promote it everywhere. People who want to read the press release or download the technology get taken right to a website that without apology promotes the theft of content.
think maybe we will see people who never knew what bittorrent was before, go to the site, download the client and rationalize that this all must be legal because right on the homepage there is a deal between the Harry Potter people and the company and website that allows me to download anything I want for free ?
COunt me as someone who had let his bittorrent client lapse and go unusable until i saw this deal announced and followed the links to bittorrent.com. Now i can steal all the content i want. If i were so inclined. (and i wont let the movies finish downloading )
Good job Warners
