Apply to be on my upcoming show The Benefactor. No special skills required, but we will put you in a pressure cooker with such potential tasks and challenges as playing solitaire and  for the more advanced contestants our old favorite card game, war. For the speed freaks out there, you could win showing off your bumper car skills.
As you can tell, I’m up late at night coming up with challenges that work the mind, body and soul, individually, and in teams. More often than not, we will simply put you someplace interesting with something interesting going on, and see how you and all your new friends get along with a million bucks on the line.
If you are daring enough to be yourself on network television, here is how you apply.
Casting: The Benefactor, Open Calls/Application Information Open Auditions Set for Atlanta, Boise, Boston, Dallas and Las Vegas.
How would you like to win a million dollars? Billionaire businessman and Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban is set to give away a million bucks to a complete stranger. Why? Because he can. How will he decide? However he wants. One million. His rules. YOUR chance! Mark Cuban is “The Benefactor.”
Candidates can visit abc.com, keyword: casting, for information on how to apply and eligibility requirements.
Participants must be legal U.S. residents and at least 21 years of age. Open auditions are being held in the following cities: Saturday, March 27 Boise, ID Doubletree Hotel Boise – Riverside 2900 Chinden Boulevard Boise, ID 83714 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturday, March 27 Boston, MA Il Panino 295 Franklin Street Boston, MA 02110 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Sunday, March 28 Atlanta, GA Earthlink Live 1374 West Peachtree St. Atlanta, GA 30309 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturday, April 3 Dallas, TX Eddie Deen 944 South Lamar Dallas, Texas 75202 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturday, April 3 Las Vegas, NV Location and time TBD.
If you can’t make the auditions in person, you may also download an application from abc.com, keyword: casting. Completed participant applications, along with a one to three-minute videotape of yourself answering four questions about why you feel worthy to receive a million bucks from Mark, can be sent to the following address (the deadline for submissions is April 2, 2004): “The Benefactor” 6230 Wilshire Blvd., #1803 Los Angeles, CA 90048-5104.
Mark has these words of wisdom for the applicants: “Everyone has dreamed of getting rich, and I want to help one lucky person get there. This isn’t a traditional contest. You don’t need special talents. I’m not looking to find out who is the grossest, funniest, prettiest, smartest or able to go without food or water the longest. The right person is going to get on my good side at the right time and, whoever that is, is going to walk away with a check for one million dollars.” “From the millions of applicants we expect, I will then invite approximately 15 finalists to visit with me and begin the journey to win the money. And I can promise you it will be a journey… with some of the rules made up along the way. So if you are ready to take a voyage to a one million dollar check, go to abc.com keyword: casting.”
Six episodes of “The Benefactor” are slated to air during the summer of 2004. “The Benefactor” was created by and will be executive-produced by David Young for 12 Yard Productions. Clay Newbill (producer of “The Mole,” “Celebrity Mole” and “The Bachelorette”) of Dog-Fight Industries and Todd Wagner, CEO of 29 29 Productions, will also serve as executive producers.
