Bill OReilly of the Fox Network has taken a shine to me. I think he really , really likes me. Otherwise why would he be talking so much about Redacted, a movie that one of our companies produced and another will release on November 16th in theaters across the country.
 In a move that I hope will make OReilly love me even more, we are offering Redacted on DVD, through cable and satellite VOD and PPV offerings and…(HDNet Movies subscribers can see it for free as part of a special, exclusive  HDNet Movies Sneak Preview on November 14th, If you dont get HDNet Movies, just call your cable or sat provider and order it.)
Just think Bill, thanks to your promotion, your viewers will now be able to watch Redacted, how where and when they want it. In a theater, on TV, on DVD, on HDNet Movies. Movies the way they were meant to be seen. I can’t thank you enough.
I did want to address a couple  of the issues that you raise. In your ever informative Talking Points, 
First is your comment on Hip Hop “just look at how the hip-hop industry has damaged so many young Americans, giving them insidious role models to glorify crime and self- destructive behavior.” 
Bill, I knew that when i first heard Rappers Delight that i was in trouble. For almost 30 years the phrase “Hotel motel Holiday Inn, if your girl starts acting up, then you take her friend” has played an inglorious role in my life, and the lives of countless others who are now in their mid 40s.  So while I may agree with you, there was an interesting article about Hip Hop and its relationship to kids in today’s NY Times that you may want to read. All I can say about it is , “I will link to it, you decide”
In your same Talking Points article, as well as on   your show  you make the point that if a movie that is critical of  war, it can get soldiers killed. You like to make this argument a lot. Thats fine. Now prove it. Prove that as you suggest, Insurgents need or look for elements in a movie to inflame their hatred beyond where it is today. I dont think they can hate us any more than they do, and I certainly dont think they are going through movies looking for clips to provide incremental motivation.
I dont think you can prove it bill and I learned that you cant from your own show when you had Aaron Klein, author of “Shmoozing with Terrorists ” on. From your own transcripts of the show, you as you always do, say it best  “
Bill: Even though the terrorists may like that, you can’t really say they’re “helping” the terrorists by exercising your freedom of dissent.
KLEIN: I’m not saying that these Hollywood icons are helping the terrorists
Bill, does this mean that all your  rhetoric about Hollywood  helping the terrorists  is wrong ?
In the same interview Mr Klein says that the terrorists he talked to hadnt
And if you truly believe they are going through movies to find motivation, why arent they going through your online video from your show ? You are the fair and balanced show, right ? So you have had guests on that “support the bad guys” and you make
