It’s no surprise to readers of this blog that he doesn’t like me.  He seems to always find a way to spout lies and pass them off as legally permissable opinion.  It’s gotten to the point of becoming comical.
Yesterday, at the Mavs vs Suns game, there was a guy yelling at me “How is Chavez ?, How is Chavez ?”.  So i walked over to him and his daughter sitting next to him and asked him what in the world he was talking about.  So the guy says, ” How is your friend Chavez , you know from Venezuala ?”.  So I gave him the obvious response of ” I don’t know him and definitely don’t support him, where in the world did you hear this nonsense ?”.  Which of course was a dumbass question on my part. I dawned on me, just as it was coming out of his mouth “O’Reilly”
It doesn’t matter how many times I make it clear that I’m neither right wing or left wing, that I think for myself, O’Reilly just can’t resist making comments about me. But thats not the point of this post.
I enjoy finding out just how big a hypocrite OReilly is.  One of our movie companies, Truly Indie, is distributing an amazing, amazing movie about  those from the medical profession who choose to serve our country  and the trials and tribulations they go through.  Its  called Fighting For Life .  Our PR people contacted a variety of media sources who were very supportive of the film. I made sure to ask them specifically to contact foxnews and the OReilly show. I wanted to know that when Bill asked why there were not any pro troops films being produced and released, if he would get behind a movie that truly is. 
You already know the answer. Our PR people received no response.  When I emailed them directly, after the lack of response, this was our exchange

 Sent: Thursday, April 03, 2008 11:56 AM To: Mitchell, Ron Cc: Melissa Raddatz Subject: Re:
 another link, just in case you want more info about a movie you ignored
 http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/fighting_for_life/
 m
From Fox News , OReilly Producer >On Fri, 4 Apr 2008 10:27 am, Mitchell, Ron wrote:  
From MC>  don’t trust bill to focus on the movie, so I won’t.
I  expected that bill would have gotten the film , watched and been excited to see a pro troops, pro military movie. That he would take the initiative, given all his spewing about there not being any pro military movies being made and been excited to promote the film or does he not support pro troops films ?
m
What say you bill ?
