Blogs, uhh, good God, what are they good for…..(sung to the tune of the song War)…
Has anyone noticed lately that more blogs posts are about other blogs, which are writing about whats being reported in other blogs than about something original from the author ? 
Far be it for me to be a cynic, but it sure seems like more blogs are being written with the goal of getting traffic than with the goal of saying something original. Its almost as if bloggers are the new rappers with Blog Pimpin and Blogwars becoming analogous to Rap Wars. 
You know, if The Game called out 50 Cent in a song so that 50Cent would retaliate with a song saying something to the effect of “I got shot 9 times, you ain’t got shot non, so shut the hell up son”. And then the Game would rap right back and they both hoped that it would create attention on the radio and on TRL, 106 & Park, in Vibe, The Source, etc and when it was all said and done, music sales would increase. Then they would make up and do a co-production joint and put together the Drop Your Weapons Truce Tour.
In the Blogosphere, self promotion is out of control. Self Diggin , Slashdotting and Deliciousizing are pretty much par for the course, but more prevalent is the new habit of writing about whatever the top story is on the aggregation sites. If its at the top of Techmeme, there are a core of bloggers that you know are just going to write about the top ranking story. Why ? Because then your blog gets listed under the top of mind, top of page topic. Which leads to more traffic. Thats BlogPimpin.
Then of course there are blogwars. There are people who no matter what I write about technology, will write about it. There are others that no matter what I write about stocks or the market, will comment on it. The same with movies, copyright and sports. Why ? Because when people search on my name, or for my blog, on sites like Icerocket.com and technorati, their blogs will show up. Plus, if they get really lucky, I might engage them right back and drive traffic directly to their blog. 50Cent and The Game ain’t got nothing on Mark Cuban and …..
Of course its not just me they write about. Anything that looks good in the tag cloud, videos, movies, whatever, they will post about it in short order. Any blogger with a high profile, they are after him or her.
Its all about Big Pimpin for traffic baby. Welcome to trying to make a living in the Blog Game. It puts the rap game to shame.
  
