What in the world is Donald Trump going to do now ? He “quit” The Apprentice after a 3 year run. His casinos once again are having troubles. He is at real risk of transitioning from THE Donald.to, “you remember, THAT Donald” .
I actually feel sorry for the guy. Seriously, what could his future hold ? We live in a culture where celebrity out of the limelight is celebrity quickly forgotten. Its a peril for those whose only skill is being a celebrity and I’m sad to say, I think Donald Trump has fallen from businessperson who goes back to work as some of us are, into the category of celebrity without a TV show .
Is there any question that “You’re fired” will be listed right next to “Is that your final answer” in reality show trivia history ? (I know, insert your Benefactor slams here..). 
But have no fear Donald, I have some options for you:
1. You can travel the world over and give speeches on brand dilution. Explaining how a brand that was once synonymous with the finest real estate in the world is now synonymous with a canceled TV show, water, steaks, a doll, mortgages, vodka, a perfume, a game and an online University that tries to sell questionable advice and products and is one of the biggest spammers on the Internet.
2. You can go to VH1 and ask to be on the celebrity fitness show. 
3. They need a replacement for Rosie on The View….
4. Also on VH1, I Love New York will be starting up production again. I promise you that you would get record ratings if you become one of her potential boyfriends.
5. You could produce the Broadway version of “Raising Arizona”. You could play H.I. and work with your new born son, riding his coattails as the star of the show.
6. Could anyone play the part of Judge Smails in a remake of Caddyshack better than you ? 
Or best of all, you can go back to NBC and ask for one more season of The Apprentice. Me against You. We let the audience pick the tasks and our teams and we let Rosie O’Donnell and Melania be in the boardroom and decide who wins or loses. I would do it just to see those two sitting next to each other.
What do you say ? You up for it ?
