Tom Petty was right. I hate the wait.
Just got to the arena.
Made sure i first got my protein. Stopped at 7-11 for my gourmet Tuna Fish Sandwich. Dentyne Ice to make sure no one else realizes I had a tuna fish sandwich and a Monster Lo Carb Drink. (Got to alternate between my faves…Kronik and Monster low carb)
Had to talk on the phone to the daughter of one of theclerks while the line backed up. The people behind me in line went from “Go Mavs” to “would you shut up already and let us buy our Big Gulps”. Hey, I can handle the pressure.
Can’t say I always ask for the ball at crunch time though. Signing an autograph for the clerk’s daughter was no problem. Seeing her come running out to my car asking me to personalize it to a name I would have to ask her to spell for me 5 times…well that wouldnt be fair to those people waiting. So I did the only logical thing. I just smiled from mycar, waved good bye and gave her the thumbs up as I pulled away.
I’m sure she thinks Im a choker.
Back to the waiting. The things that I have to do to make time fly.
Anyone who has been to a game here knows we take great pride in trying to come up with unique videos and songs that entertain and amuse our fans/customers. Its not always easy. We have great marketing people who have come up with classics like the Star Wars Nash vs Dirk – Cut your hair. But I like coming up with some ideas as well.
Some are good. Some not. But going through all the songs you hear, running through Itunes samples , reading email suggestions and just looking for clues can be fun.
One emailer sent in a great remake of Pinball Wizard to Free Throw Lizard. A little too long and harsh for us.
Im trying to come up with a nice way to turn the Hokey Pokey into the ShaqaPokey.. You put your elbow in, you put elbow out. You put elbow in and you smash it all about…Show some video from last game. But that was a bit harsh. For now.
Im also pushing our guys to redo this song. Its already a cheeselicious classic. Anything we can do that is a voice over of him singing the chorus surrounded by some fun Mavs lyrics. Well thats chart topping entertainment !
We are working on re doing the Charlie Daniels Band – The Souths Gonna Do it Again as the Mavs are going to do it again.
The list goes on and on.
What better way to kill the time till 7:30pm
Time to get ready to work out
