Update:
I stand corrected. As i have since found out, figured out and been told. The Captcha from Google has been in place. It was only triggered in respone to their spam filters. I hadnt been flagged before. I was flagged today.
Thanks to those who took the time to let me know and to Jason for his updates on buzz
If Im going to criticize for inaction, its only fair to praise for action. Google has taken the very needed step of adding a captcha word verification system to blogspot.I went in today to see if the process of setting up a blog had changed, and it definitely had.
Word verification was part of the process.
Then i went to a blog i had set up which didnt have much of anything in it. I tried to add a post. Same thing. Thank you Google. Are you reading this MSN ? Your turn.
While some in the blog search business like to pretend they are smart and are doing a good jobeliminating splogs, they arent and dont. Which obviously is good news for Icerocket.com.
i think Robert Scoble came up with using Camcorder as a simple keyword search test. No engine elminates all the splog. Some are worse than others. Splogs arent going to just disappear. Sometimes it requires a call to action that benefits everyone, to which good companies, like google respond.
Unlike some with cluttered homepages, Icerocket.com isnt trying to be a portal. We arent trying to be all things blogs. We arent a gateway to the blogosphere. We arent trying to create context. We want to be a simple and easy way to search for information about any keyword or topic and return to you the freshest information available, and then allow you to easily track that information on an ongoing basis.
You can use google, yahoo , A9 , MSN or any other search engine to ask questions that you want answered. Thats not us.
The better way to describe Icerocket.com is as a tracking engine. If you want to track references made about a topic or keyword, we are for you. We allow you to easily subscribe to any website we return that supports RSS, and we enable RSS for any search result. Its incredibly easy.
If you want to track what a specific author that maintains multiple blogs is saying, thats easy. I can track what Dave Caolo is saying across hisKermit the Blog site and Apple blog, and where his posts are being credited on other sites as well.
If you are tracking something and want to go back and see what information was delivered within a certain date range. Thats no problem at all. You can customize any date range.If i want to see what was being said about the Mavs during the playoffs last year and compare that to now. Its easy. Plus, I use Mozilla. Icerocket.comenables all searches to be livebookmarks. I just click on my Links Bar and at a glance I can track what is being said.
Icerocket.com isnt really a blog search engine, although thats the term we use since its the easiest way to communicate what we are doing. We are a tracking engine. We dont just index and accept pings from blogs, we index any and every source of information that is updated on an ongoing basis. Forums. Yes. Corporate RSS feeds. Yes. Better yet, there are some things happening that will enable traditional websites to identify new information on their sites and ping that to us. This way if WidgetsInc comes out with a new Dallas Mavericks Widget, they can update their widgetsinc.com website and we will have it covered.It will show up in Dallas Mavericks topicIm tracking.
If you are looking for some extra reading material to kill time, or you want to roam the isles for a new favorite blog to read, we arent the best place to come.
If you want to know what is being said about anything, by anybody, for any given period of time icerocket.com is the place to start. If you want to keep up with or track the results of that search, we are the placeto stay.
Im happy to let the other blog engines search blogs and try to help you find the perfect blog for you.Turn to them for your bedtime reading. Icerocket.com will help you track the world so you never fall behind on any topic or keyword that is important to you.
