Ok, let me answer all the questionsI have been getting via email.
With each test, I am looking for specific things. I cut based on those specific things. In putting together the basketball teams, I was looking for organizational skills. I always tried to stick to evaluating the skills the tests were based on.
Did I like it when the kids were harassed by some of the contestants? Of course not. Did I take it into consideration? Yes, but not as the primary consideration.
Now that I have gotten to know the remaining contestants, I have been accumulating the “brownie points” and the “cut points”. Things like how they dealt with the kids. How they have treated and reacted to both me and the other contestants. Those haven’t gone unnoticed. I just tally them up, ready to use them if there is a toss up in making a decision between two contestants.
Why not just cut on the spot? Because there is only 1 reward on this show (with the exception of the bribe). That reward is winning the million dollars. There is not added value if a contestant goes further but still doesn’t win. They walk away with the same amount of money as The Rich, the first contestant cut.
In fact, a wise viewer might surmise that I recognize that some people appear to be excelling by simply not failing. They would be right.
I will give every remaining contestant the chance to win. They will have to do so by excelling at the tests, not by not making mistakes or just getting lucky.
Some more twists for you to watch for…
Character tests come in to play starting this episode. If you thought there was something good or bad about a person, it comes out Monday.
This Monday has the funniest response to any test. I don’t know how they thought of it, but they did.
There are a lot of built up frustrations released by the contestants on Monday night…at each other.
As always, thanks for reading and watching!
And one more tidbit. The best place to search for info on The Benefactor is via a new feature on IceRocket.com. It’s the blog Search. Forget what traditional media is saying. The fun stuff is on blogs. Check it out
 http://www.icerocket.com/search?tab=blog&q=%22the+benefa…
