One of the amazing things about owning a TV network, is that I get to take chances. For those who don’t know, I own HDNet. It’s the first all high definition TV network, and includes 2 channels, HDNet and HDNet Movies.
As the first all HDTV network, we have had to take the lead in many areas of technology. Oneis byhaving the first high definition fly away pack. A fly away pack is basically a TV studio in a box that we can send anywhere in the world and broadcast live.
We decided to send it to Iraq to cover the elections.
It took about 2 weeks to get there. It took armored escorts, alittle bit of hook and crook, and a lot of luck, but it made it to the roof of a building in a key location in Baghdad. Once we made it to this location (whichI can’t disclose given we have been told by the US Military,Iraqi Police and more than a few of the bad guys on the other side, that if anyone finds out where we are, or if they can see it from the street, they will shoot it down first, and ask questions later) it took us another 3 days to mount the uplink so that it could make a continuous connection with our satellite.
After a lot of hard work from our crew, we now have a continous feed of Baghdad, in glorious 1080i high definition.Since it’s my network, and this is something I think is amazing and compelling, we are going to broadcast the feed continuously on HDNet during daylight and twilight hours in Baghdad. No talking heads. No interruptions for commentary. Just the sights and sounds of Baghdad, uninterrupted and unedited. What you see, and in High Definition you see and hear a lot, is what you get.
We will have our HDNet World Report crew out covering the elections for their show, but from 2am to 10am EST the next several days, what transpires in Baghdad, that is visible from this rooftop, HDNet viewers are going to see as if they are sitting on that rooftop themselves.
It’s technology. It’s access. Its choice. We have absolutely no idea what will happen. But its the first taste of democracy in Iraq, ever. HDNet viewers will have a clearer view of what happens than most Iraqis.
If you don’t have HDNet, get up in the morning and get to a Home Theater Store, or consumer electroncs store and check it out. There is a list of places to watch it on our website, www.hd.net. If you have a high def set and don’t get HDNet yet, call your cable or satellite company and get it turned on asap.
This is history in the making. Who knows what will happen. Who knows if it will be in camera range. But if it does and it is, you will see it as if you were there.
