I did an interview with Mike Freeman of Sportsline that he posted today.
I’ve taken the liberty of repeating it here, and adding some additional thoughts below it. Thanks MIke.

I also wanted to add a quick thought that is in response to some of the comments. 
The ultimate test, whether of American or foriegn players of their committment to playing for their national teams is whether they would waive their guarantees for any injuries suffered during international competitions.  If its country before money. Great. Go for it.  
The next point is that if we want NBA players to be better international as well as NBA players, then why do we restrict our ability to work with them over the summer ? Even if a player wants to come to Dallas and train and work with our coaches, we arent allowed to make it happen.  Commissioner Stern said it best (although im paraphrasing, i couldnt find a directlink) when he said that it didnt make sense that student athletes had more access to shoe companies than their coachs. Well the same thing applies to NBA players. Our players can play in Pro Am Leagues. THey can do whatever they want with their shoe company and the promotions and games they put together, but we cant work with them on their skillsets. Skills that would improve our ability to compete internationally, and would make the NBA better. Hopefully the commish can work with the NBA Players union, or better yet, the Players Union will encourage their membership to allow skills based training over the summer.
And finally, let me go back to the business side of the equation.  I personally dont think the NBA gains returns equal to a money market fund from the money we spend internationally. 
 Do we sell product. Absolutely. Do we sell TV rights. Absolutely. Do we gain an international profile  ? Absolutely. That said, my business bias is to win the battles we are in first, then take on new battles.HOw about we focus on doing a better job in the battle for eyeballs in the US first ? How about we create so much demand fo
r our game that over the air TV perceives it as a must have TIVO buster product like the NFL ? Or Iceskating in the Olympics ?
 All that money we spend to promote ourselves internationally can be far better spent to promote our game domestically. Lets make the NBA  a close, not distant second to the NFL.  The USA is  the most prolific TV market in the world.  Increasing our ratings and attendance here from better marketing will pay us far , far more returns than anything we could ever possibly do internationally.
