Early this year the NBA came to me and asked if I would be interested in doing my own talk show on Sirius Radio. The NBA was in negotiations with Sirius at the time, and according to this NBA employee, Sirius would only do a deal with the NBA if I would do a show. 
Doing a radio show is something I had been asked to do in the past, but it really wasnt something I had an interest in doing. I had zero interest in having a show of any kind. However, in the interest of helping the NBA close a multi million dollar deal, I told this person I would be happy to meet with Sirius. Thats what good partners do
I flew up to NY and met with Scott Greenstein of Sirius, who couldnt have been nicer, more encouraging , more complimentary and more excited about my doing a radio show.  He actually got me excited about it. They would set up an ISDN link and board in my office so I could work from home. They would give me a producer so that in addition to the show time, my preperation time would only be a few more hours per week. We decided that I would do a show that would be every Sunday at noon for  3 hours.  Not just during basketball season, but 46 weeks per year.   My pay… nada. I could potentially earn a percentage of advertising revenue that I generated, but I wasnt planning on going out to sell ads.
I told them it sounded like fun, but I would ONLY do it if they closed a deal with the NBA.  Scott made it clear that they wanted me to do the show whether or not the NBA deal closed. I made  it clear that the only reason I would make this committment in time is to help the NBA and only with an NBA – Sirius deal could the show happen.
I had committed to give up my Sundays. Reschedule the Sunday half of my Daddy – Daughter lunchs at the infamous Blue Cow Restaurant eating chicking nuggets and hot fudge sundaes. Do the preperation time to make the show good. For Free. To be a good NBA partner.
Whenever Ive been able to help  my NBA partners, I’ve always tried to. I have gone on sales calls with the NBA to try to close business. In one case where things didnt go so well with the Commissioner, I was brought in as an alternative. I have given talks , speechs and Q&A sessions with more than half the teams in the NBA.  Whenever there is a Speakers Series held by a team , it seems like I am asked to speak. Teams refer me to other teams as being one of , if not the biggest draw they have had. In addition, if i get asked to speak by any group in an NBA city, I wont do it unless its before or after a game, and all the participants are required to buy a ticket to the game. Thats what good partners do.
Unfortunately my partners in the NBA didnt see the value I thought I brought to the league. Hey it happens. Im not the first business person who’s self evaluation of contribution to a business was wrong and I wont be the last. I have nothing but respect for my fellow NBA owners .. That said, I don’t feel the obligation to do what I thought was of value if others dont.  
So, having made a short story long. To those of you who emailed,  asking when RadioMaverick will start on Sirius, it won’t. For those of you who emailed asking if I will be speaking at your team’s functions again this year. I doubt it.
Will I still be cheering on the Mavs. Absolutely. Will I be in the same seats, cheering the same way. Absolutely. Not having to do the show is great news. Not doing the show and events is easy. Explaining to my daughter why we arent going to Purple Cow as she is trying to pull me out of my office every Sunday, now that would be hard.
