For some closure on this.
Mr. O’Brien has said he would be willing to call in to an audio conference call, not meet in person. He is concerned about his safety. He cited his outing of a guy from a yahoo board that ended up getting in trouble, along with advice from his attorney that unnamed hedge funds may from time to time undertake a policy of intimidation that he might at some point be subject to as his reason for wanting to remain anonymous.
I’m not one of Charlie’s Angels and he isn’t Bosley. So until he meets face to face, there won’t be a meeting. I want to be able to look him in the eye and call BS if and when I hear it.
Mr. O’Brien has undertaken the strategy of responding to every comment with a response that primarily consists of, “Yes, but there is naked shorting going on, and these specific laws are being broken. If laws are being broken and there is no enforcement, how can we trust anything we know?” He then gives examples of where naked shorting was not punished.
Good for him. I hope he is able to catch some naked shorters. They are breaking the law. May they show up in a Law& Order episode.
None of this has anything to do with the operational issues of any company being discussed.
I have been asked multiple times in emails why I think NFI is a short. I will givea brief why. Since i can’t borrow it, it’s a moot discussion, but here is the quick and dirty
I think its wrong to raise money in a 2ndary to pay a dividend. Either you have money to pay the div or you don’t. 2ndaries dilute ownership and create a bigger obligation for future dividends. That’s a slippery slope, IMHO
Missing your numbers because of rising short term interest rates when it’s pretty obvious that short term rates were going to go up. Suggests there is a failure to communicate between them and the analysts.
Not asking NFI-info.net to shut down or rename itself as a way to distance itself. No action is an action in this case
There you have it.
Remember this,
Naked Shorts don’t kill good companies, good companies kill naked shorts…
