I wanted to address some of the comments. I just think its necessary.
  First. There is no question, that even at the minimum salary,NBA rookies and 1st yearplayers are blessed to be earning that much money. However, realize that about 55 pct comes off the top for taxes (they have to pay taxes in ever state we play in), agent and union dues, and NBA Escrow. But more importantly, we bang on them to save, save save. For most of the NBA minimum Free Agents in their first or 2nd year, these will be the ONLY years they play in the NBA.
  Its a darwinian business. Chances are this is their only year or two in the NBA. If they are cut, they probably go play in the minor leagues, or possibly in Europe, but in either case, there is a 95pct chance that they arent going to be in this business, the one they have dreamed of and prepared for their entire lives for more than 4 years.
  Which in turn means they have to find a new profession. Thats not cheap, thats not easy.
  So while it may seem likea rookie free agent has plenty of money to buy custom tailored suits or sport coats for up to 2 grand a pop, its a big investment that could impact their future. In the big picture, that rookie and everyone who knows this business, knows thats money that should be saved for the future and its a huge hit for them.
  2nd. Issue. The “Thug” Issue.  If you look at NBA players. White, black, brown, yellow, whatever color or nationality, regardless of how they dress, and think thug. You are an idiot. I have said it before, and I will say it again. I have run companies with a predominantly young work force. My personnel issues were far worse in those companies than anything at the Mavs, or what I have seen across the NBA. Young kids makes stupid mistakes. Thats what 21 year olds do.
If I had cameras following me when I was in my 20s……Or go to any hot nightclub and watch 20 somethings partying. Then ask them where they work.
Im willing to bet that you could take the workforce of any major corporation, segment out all their employees 35 and under and without question, you would find far more problems and issues in their workforce on, in absolute numbers or on a percentage basis than you would in the NBA.
I bet that any person over the age of 25 reading this post knows more screwups personally than there are playing in the NBA.
The reality for the NBA however is that we have let the media coverage of our game be personality based. The NFL has someone on trial or in jail every single week. Sure hasnt affected their ratings at all. Why ? Because media coverage is of the team, game strategy and in game matchups. Most of us couldnt identify 90 pct of the players on our favorite football team in a lineup. You might know their name and number, but you have no idea what they look like.
Randy Moss gets high. No one says they wont watch the NFL because of it. So and so gets accused of beating such and such. Its reported. Its documented. No one turns off the NFL as a result. We arent talking about the NFL having an image problem, we talk about how the price for Super Bowl ads continue to go up. How many advertisers walk away from the NFL and claim its because of the NFL image ? Heck, the NFL turns away ads for a movie about sports gambling. Talk about hypocritical…No one cares.
Watch the pregame of NFL games. They have talked to coaches about plays. They talk about plays. They talk about defensive strategy. They talk about what will be run in which situations. Fans do the same. It makes watching the games a lot more fun.
What do we talk about before an NBA game ? Sure we talk about individual matchups. We might even talk about individual skills. But how many in the media even know that there is a play run and a defense called , with options, bailouts and audibles on almost every single possession ? And how many write or talk about them ?
Instead we get stupid ramblings like “so and so has got to step up and earn his money”. “This is where so and so has got to prove he is worth the money”. Watching the ESPN crew with Stephen A, Greg Anthony and Tim Legler is painful. They are a cliche a second. Same soundbites every single game, just the player names are changed.TNT isnt much better. At least Barkley is entertaining at saying nothing.
I was watching the Mavs vs Detroit preseason game last night. Cliche after Cliche. Not a single bit of new information. They spent half the game talking about a dunk that Darko had. Not to pick on these guys, its the same for every team, including from our guys.
Has anyone ever heard after a basket; “I expect the Mavs to run a thumbs down or horns sidein this situation. Detroit is probably expecting them to push the ball, so watch for the Pistons to use a send 4 to the Offensive boards and everyone else gets back when the ball goes up into a man to man, gold on the post, come on first dribble on an entry pass”.
Or the Pistons always seem to run a 42 in out of bounds situations. They have run it 64 pct of their inbounds possessions under their own basket. Here is how it works …
Never. Instead we get mindless drivel about players. I know the game is fast and doesnt have the breaks that football has, but there is still time to discuss these things during stoppages and free throws
Im just as guilty of letting it happen at the Mavs in our media. Its something I have to find a way to cure.
I said it in the previous post, the Dress Code is a response to symptoms of bigger problems. The simplistic views people have of our players, is in response to our own stupidity in how we cover and report our games. On a macro level.
On an individual level. If you think NBA players, or any professional athlete that you never have had any interaction with is a thug. Then the problem is yours. You are an idiot.
