No, I’m not hiring.
I do get hundreds of resumes and emails asking me for advice in finding a job. Most common is from someone who wants a job in sports, and they want to know the best way to get there.
Well here you go.
1. Don’t major in Sports Marketing
IMHO, every one of the Sports Marketing Programs, or the derivatives there of, are a HUGE waste of time and resources. It’s the 2000’s version of rocks for jocks or majoring in Phys Ed. Can’t think of what you want to major in… working in sports sounds like a blast… so lets pick Sports Marketing.
I know that’s not completely fair to everyone. That’s its a broad generalization, but from this end, it sure seems that way.
Let me let all Sports Marketing majors in on a secret. There is nothing at all special or different about running, managing, or working in a sports organization. It runs the exact same way as any company that sells widgets, service or entertainment of any kind.
If you really want to work for a sports organization, get as broad based a business education as you possibly can. Finance, accounting, sales, more sales, more sales, management, etc. The better the understanding you have of our customers and how they work, the better value you will be able to provide to the sports organization. To repeat, it’s more important to know how our customers’ businesses operate than how the sports business operates
What we do is easy.
2. If you can sell, you can get a job – anywhere, anytime
WhenI was growing up I was told over and over again, if you can sell, you can always get a job. Of course, I was told that after a friend of my moms’ told me when I was in highschool, that I should also have a trade to fall back on. He tried to teach me how to lay carpet. My first, last and only experience was working for him and watching him shake his head and rip out whatI had done…. But I digress
I don’t remember who told me that selling was a job for a lifetime, but they were right.
If you can sell, you can find a job in sports. I will take a high school dropout who is caring, involved and can sell overan MBA in sports management almost everytime.
What makes a good salesperson?
Let me be clear that it’s not the person who can talk someone into anything. It’s not the hustler who is a smooth talker. The best salespeople are the ones who put themselves in their customer’s shoes and provide a solution that makes the customer happy.
The best salesperson is the one the customer trusts and never has to question.
The best salesperson is the one who knows that with every cold call made, they are closer to helping someone.
The best salesperson is the one who takes immense satisfaction from the satisfaction their customer gets.
The best salesperson is the one who wakes up early every morning excited to come to the office and get on the phone and let people know exactly why they love their product, their job and their clients
Sound corny? It is. It’s also very simple.
It’s also the most important job in every company. There has yet to be a successful company that has survived with zero sales.
So if selling is the most important job in a company, why do fewer and fewer people seem to be wanting the job?
Why aren’t their many colleges offering majors in “Salesmanship”, not Sales and Marketing. Just pure, old fashioned selling?
If you don’t have a job, or don’t have the job you want, get a job in sales. Every single person on this planet can learn to be a great salesperson. All you have to do is put in the effort and care about your company, your prospects and customers.
Once you excel at selling, getting a job in sports is easy. But then again, if you are good, I’m sure the company you work for is going to do everything they can to keep you.
One last self serving footnote. Please don’t send me emails telling me how great a salesperson you are, looking for a job. We post all of our jobs on the Mavs and HDNet websites. If there is an opening, feel free to apply. Good luck!
