Icouldn’t resist responding to all the comments on podcasting
First, yes you can timeshift and transport a podcast, but any streamer can offer a podcast ofa stream. So what.
2nd, I have never seen a live podcast, have you? Not only are there not livepodcasts, but the ability to communicate realtime or breaking information doesn’t work for podcasting. Which is why streaming will always have a place and at least for this type of information, an advantage. So what.
3rd. Podcasting may be hot, but I don’t hear a single person talking about the podcast of Live8. Do you? Yet everyone is talking about the superiority of AOL’s streaming delivery over MTV. Congrats to AOL.
4th. We won’t get into video since it’s not a fair comparison. The number of portabledevices capable of receiving a video podcast right now is miniscule. (Yes,I know about the devices with potential to get them, but they can’t yet and probably all have to be replaced to do so.) So what.
What’s not so what? The economics for indivdual podcasters.
Podcasting is cheap, easy and fun. Yes it’s different than streaming.But thatdoesn’t change the pitiful economics for individual podcasters.
Let me explain to you how things will work.
Finally, when those formally known as podcasters do an accounting of the net dollars they earned and compareit to the time they invested, they will realize they made about 17 cents per hour all in.
All that will be left of profit motivated individual podcasters will be the few and far between and probably less than half of a percent of all podcasters (and please don’t anyone post a comment saying…if there are a million podcasters, 1 pct is 10k, half of that is 5k. That’s a ton. I’m making up these numbers to prove a point, not to be literal…Ok?).
And like personal blogs, tens of thousands if not morewill stay on as labors of love that we enjoy because of their creativity.
So in about 3 years, the Podcast phenomena will have run its course and will just be a normal part of the digital media landscape.
Just like streaming.
Read what bloggers are saying about podcasting
