Anyone who knows me knows I’m not a fan of Patent Trolls.  Actually, there are only a few areas in which Im a fan of patents at all.  The lawsuits filed against Magnolia (and Apple, Amazon and Weinstein Companies) are perfect examples of why. In this case a company was able to get a patent on the downloading of movies over cellular networks , but only for movies that have not been released in theaters yet.
Could there be a more ridiculous patent ever issued  ?
Follow the logic here.  If Magnolia, which distributes movies and pioneered the release of movies before they are in theaters, something we called UltraVOD and have done since 2004 , decides to make movies available for download via cellular to mobile devices, we have not violated the patent. IT IS ONLY WHEN WE DECIDE TO SHOW THAT MOVIE IN A THEATER  that we have violated the Patent.   Huh ?
Does that make any sense to anyone ?
Here is what makes it even crazier. You have to own the rights to the movie before you can decide its distribution strategy. In the movie business, its difficult to sell a movie before its theatrical release simply because none of the big theater chains will release a movie that has already been released on other platforms, whether cellular, download, VOD, whatever. THere are some independent theaters that will.   Magnolia is able to do it because we also own the Landmark Theater Chain and we can work with the independents to expand the theatrical distribution.
When you look at the VOD or PPV or on Amazon or ITunes and see “Before its in theaters” movies for sale or rent or PPV, that is a category that we created and grew to where it is today.
This patent is not protecting a business the Troll came up with. Its not protecting an invention they created. They were not operating in this business in any way shape or form that i can find. They simply took the obvious idea that if movies can be downloaded and released via the internet, they same thing will happen via cellular data.  And they probably noticed what we were doing back in 2004 and decided to try to patent it.  Well they got the patent. Amazingl
The following is from the complaint.
