With all the discussion about trades and free agents, I thought I would offer some housekeeping so that everyone can understand what can and can’t happen in regards to trades and free agents in the NBA.
First. A team cannot just take and trade an unrestricted free agent to the team of their choice. The free agent has to want to go that team, has to agree to the trade and fully work outcontract terms with that team. So whether it was Steve or anyone else, before any trade to a team could be worked out, the free agent would have to negotiate and agree on a deal with the destination team. In essence this is the equivalent of a no trade clause. The free agent is just that, and can choose to go or not go to a team.
2nd. If a team signs a free agent or a rookie, that player cannot be traded till the 15th of December. So we can’t sign a free agent from another team and immediately trade the player. Nor can we trade Devin Harris or Marquis Daniels for example.
3rd. In trades, if the teams exchanging players are over the cap (and the Mavs are), then current year salaries exchanged must be within 15pct plus 100k dollars of each other. So if the Mavs trade a player who makes 1mm per year, we can take a player, or players, whose total salaries in the current year equal $1.25mm. That breaks down as 1mm plus 15pct of 1mm plus 100k. Rights to players or draft picks who are unsigned do not add any monetary consideration to the totals.
If one or both of thetradingteams are under the cap, they may receive a player up to the amount of their cap room without giving up equal salaries. If a team is at or over the cap, they must adhere to the above rules
4th. If you acquire a player in a trade, you may trade that player straight up for another player immediately. If you wish to package that player with another and make a trade, you must wait 60 days.
5th. In a sign and trade deal, the deal must be for at least 3 years, and the first year MUST be guaranteed, the next 2 or more years do not have to be guaranteed.
6th. If a player is part of a sign and trade, and that player receives more than a 20pct increase in salary, that player is considered a base year player. When a player is considered a base year player, the team can only take back salaries equal to 1/2 of the current year salary of the base year traded, or 120pct of the previous year salary (whichever is higher)* if that player is traded to a team at or over the cap. If the player is traded to a team under the cap, base year does not apply.
7th. There are 3 exceptions available to teams that are over the cap. (If a team is under the cap, they may not use the exceptions.)
8th. 99pct of deals that you read about were never proposed, and 99pct of the deals that are proposed never happen.
9th. You will never hear me, or anyone in the Mavs comment on rumored trades. I learned my lesson the hard way about this when I first got into the league. I was playing basketball with a friend, and we had a trade about to go down with another team. I told some of my buddies at the gym about the trade. They told some people, the next day we were reading about the proposed trade in the paper. The other team got very upset and killed the deal. Lesson learned.
This is why prior to our deals, like the deal with the Wizards for the #5 pick, or last summer’s trades, you never heard a word about the deals prior to them happening. Those trades caught everyone by surprise and so will anything else that we do.
10th. Watch the American Century Championship on NBC this weekend.I willbe auctioning off my incredibly poor caddying services to the highest bidder,with all proceeds from this and other great auction items going to theFallen Patriot Fund.
Hopefully this helps provide guidelines for fans. I realize that it is still somewhat technical in nature, but these are the basic rules for making trades.
If anyone out there knows Sam Smith, please provide him with a copy of these rules since he obviously has no idea how the trade rules work.

*there are some exceptions to this, but not worth listing, this is a good rule of thumb.

