This went out today: FIRST HIGH DEFINITION TV RATINGS PUT HDNET OUT IN FRONT OF THE COMPETITION
 HDNet Movies and HDNet’s Original Programming Slate Lead the Way
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Dallas (July 10, 2007) – According to TNS Media Research of set top box  data in a major market, HDNet’s two all high definition networks, HDNet  and HDNet Movies achieved a record share of the high definition viewing  audience.
 According to the real time data captured by TNS Media, the HDNet  networks excelled in all weekday and weekend dayparts. HDNet’s share  of the high definition viewing audience for the week ending July 1, 2007  is as follows:
 Weekends – All Day – 8.6 % Weekends – Primetime – 7.8% Weekdays – All Day – 6.1 % Weekdays – Primetime – 6.3 % ***
HDNet outperformed all other HD-exclusive networks in all dayparts, and  beat both cable and broadcast simulcasts on weekends (including DISC HD, KTLAHD, ESPN HD, TNT HD, PBS HD, UniHD, MTVHD and for the whole day on this weekend, FOX HD).
 “We are excited by the performance of HDNet and HDNet Movies,” said Mark  Cuban, president and co-founder of HDNet. “It’s obvious that our lineup  of original programming, led by “Dan Rather Reports”, Friday Nights’  “Guys Night In” our “InFocus” series of documentaries coupled with HDNet  Movies’ stellar lineup of Original Movies from HDNet Films and our  unique Sneak Previews of theatrically released motion pictures, before  they reach theaters, is resonating with high definition viewers”
 About HDNet
 HDNet (www.hd.net) provides viewers with the best in original comedy,  drama, news, sports and music programming.
 HDNet is your exclusive, high-definition home for popular, critically  acclaimed original programming, including television’s only HD news  feature programs “HDNet World Report”, “Dan Rather Reports” featuring  legendary journalist Dan Rather and “NASA on HDNet” (presenting live  shuttle launches through 2010). HDNet presents championship sports  coverage featuring the National Hockey League, Major League Soccer,  NASCAR Grand National Division, NASCAR NEXTEL Cup re-broadcasts, boxing  and Mixed Martial Arts; groundbreaking music programming with the HDNet  Concert Series featuring leading artists and bands including U2, Black  Eyed Peas, Gwen Stefani and more, plus original music programs “Sound  Off with Matt Pinfield”, and “True Music w/Katie Daryl”; entertaining  interview shows including “Face 2 Face with Roy Firestone” and “Higher  Definition”, in addition to fun and irreverent lifestyle programming  including “Geek to Freak with Dennis Rodman”, “Deadline!”, “Art Mann  Presents”, and “Get Out!” HDNet is also the exclusive high-definition  home to the critically acclaimed and award winning programs such as the  Emmy Award winning “Arrested Development”, “The Black Donnellys”,  “Blade: The Series”, “Star Trek: Enterprise”, “Dead Like Me”,  “Smallville”, “Joan of Arcadia”, “Boomtown” and “Andy Richter Controls  the Universe”.
 HDNet Movies also features a wide selection of major studio theatrical  releases – all uncut, unedited, and appearing in their original aspect  ratio so that HDNet Movies viewers get the best possible home theater  experience.
 Only HDNet Movies exclusive “Sneak Previews” bring feature films to  viewers before they premiere in theaters! Some of the HDNet Movies  “Sneak Previews” have included the Academy Award nominated “Enron: The  Smartest Guys in the Room”, Toronto Film Festival nominee “The War  Within”, and “Bubble”, the first of six movies by acclaimed director  Steven Soderbergh and produced exclusively for HDNet Films and, most  recently, “Broken English”, from Zoe Cassavetes, starring Gena Rowlands,  Parker Posey, Drea de Matteo and Griffin Dunne. Upcoming Sneak Previews  include “Quid Pro Quo”, starring Nick Stahl and Vera Farmiga, “Hunter”,  the story of the life and death of infamous gonzo journalist Hunter S.  Thompson from director Alex Gibney and producer Graydon Carter,  “Cashback”, written and produced by Sean Ellis, “Flawless”, starring  Michael Caine and Demi Moore, “Closing Escrow”, a real estate  mockumentary featuring April Barnett and Allen Friedman, and “Mr.  Untouchable”, a documentary film about Leroy ‘Nicky’ Barnes who was the  black Godfather of Harlem in the 1970’s. Many more are to come.
 Launched in 2001 by Mark Cuban and General Manager Philip Garvin, the  HDNet networks are available on AT&T, Bright House Networks, Charter  Communications, DIRECTV, DISH Network, Insight, Mediacom, Time Warner  Cable, Verizon and more than 40 NCTC cable affiliate companies. For  more information visit www.hd.net.
 ** TNS Media Research, Anonymous Digital Return Path Set Top Box Data, the week ending July 1, 2007. HDNet and HDNet Movies share combination.
 ###
