It takes a lot of time, but its been worth the effort.  If anything, the response has reinforced two long held perspectives I have had about entrepreneurs and those who would like to be entrepreneurs. The first is that 95pct of people are dreamers who really don’t want to do the work.  They would like to think they have the “next big thing”, but don’t realize that the “next big thing” that impacts their potential success is preparation and effort.  Note to those who want me to consider their businesses in the future…READ THE ORIGINAL POST.  It wont take a lot of time, but it at least gives me the impression that you have a clue.
The 2nd reinforced belief is that the American Dream is still alive and well, even in these tough economic times.  There are still many, many of you that know that success can be defined in many ways, but that it’s earned through preparation, hard work,  love of what you are doing and a thirst to be the absolute best at what you do.  It’s not only refreshing, its exciting to learn more about some of the companies that have been presented.
The following are several of the companies that we are pursuing further and hope to close deals with. None are closed with checks written yet, but the paperwork is in process.
 1) Naked Pizza –  Simply the Worlds Healthiest Pizza. Based in New Orleans, it tastes good. They work their asses off. Try the pizza for yourself
 2) Wickler –  Takes the ability to track patrons in venues, from bars to restaurants to concert venues to the next level. Their product is selling well and the funding will take them to the next level. A strong product with hopefully a unique future.


 3) P5 Foods – They make an original food, Stuffed Chicken Wings. Its a unique product that tastes great and could provide an attractive upsell to specialty restaurants and for groceries
 4) Tycoon Online – Just as it appears, an online game that makes money from subscriptions. They have subscribers around the world and will use the investment to increase their marketing efforts

There are quite a few others we are still evaluating and discussing with the entrepreneurs involved. Keep the opportunities coming. As you can see, if you are up and running, we can move quickly ! If you have a businessplan, it might take longer, but I will take a look at it.
And one more thing, just to save all of us time. Some businesses I have decided not to pursue:
1. Real Estate.  I realize that there are properties that can be bought cheap out there.  So do many companies who specialize in doing just this.
2. Stock/Options/Futures Trading.  Enough said.
3. Anything Illegal. Even if you think it shouldn’t be illegal
4. Franchises.  I don’t see the value in being just one more franchisee
5. Restaurants.  While there have been some very interesting concepts, it is too tough a business and there are better places to put capital right now.
Anything else ? Im happy to review

