1. Youtube has become the defacto innovation killer in the video space. Unfortunately for the industry, if Youtube doesn’t adopt it, it doesn’t exist. Its MicroSoft Windows circa late 80’s, early 90’s all over again.
2. I just booted Firefox to the curb on my PC and replaced it with Chrome (Yes I see the irony of killing Youtube above and pushing Google Chrome). I got tired of Firefox slowing my computer to a crawl or freezing it completely. Chrome is fast. Of course its far from perfect. If it doesnt get support for RSS feeds very, VERY quickly I may be forced to reconsider IE and its new version 
3.  For all its faults, I am still hooked on my Sidekick. Nothing beats the keyboard. I have tried every other mobile out there and I can still type at least 2x as fast with far fewer mistakes on my trusty Sidekick
4. If the fact that the internet is not ever discussed as being integral, or even part of the solution to our current economic woes isn’t proof that it has become nothing more than a valuable utility, I don’t know what is.
5. NBA Live 09 is becoming a management tool in the NBA.  
6. I bought and tried a Kindle, it didn’t work the way I do. Gave it to my wife and she loves it.
7. Its sad, but every major tech magazine that I grew up on is gone PC Week, Byte and now PC Mag among many, many others. It used to be fun to go to the bookstore to see if there were any new magazines. At last week’s CES the magazine racks were empty. Nothing besides the daily. Big time Bummer.
8. I’ve increased the number of magazine and newspaper subscriptions I get. Its a matter of principle. I want to see them survive.  Should I go Nascar and get a jacket with the logos of their advertisers ?  On the topic of newspapers. Once they all declare chapter 11, they can get their cost structures in place to support far lower readership levels. At that point, probably less than 5 years and working from a low revenue base, we will be  talking  about the renaisance of the newspaper business. It wont ever reach pre internet levels, but it will be considered a “new growth business”.  
Here are some samples Techmeme, Steelers, Youtube, Erin Burnett,
