The 30 second commercial is dead. Right ?
  THe smart money is leaving TV and heading straight for the net, mobile, anything non traditional. TV money dumb. All other money smart. Thats is todays conventional wisdom.   I think the traditional commercial break will be the salvation of TV.
  Crazy. How can I say that you say. What is my logic you ask.
  Well, I would make one big change. I would make commercials live productions.
  Thats right, live commercials. Straight out of the 1950s.
  Its not a technical challenge. Its easy.
  Its not a creative challenge.
  Its just more work. A lot more work. But the possibilities are endless. The mutations, intentional or otherwise are endless.
  It could be simple endorsement, actor talking to audience, but that would be a waste of the medium.
  Call it Reality Commercials.
  Give me a shampoo commercial that shows some good looking models talking about how Mandisa just got booted from American Idol, because of her hair. ” If she had hair like this” (model does obligatory shampoo commercial hair flip) full, shiny, beautiful hair like only Pantene offer, she would have gotten picked.” Models all pull out their Pantene shampoo, hold it to the camera and smile. Except for the blonde, who pulls out her fake tanning tube.
  Or maybe after the kicker misses a field goa, and we cut to the Levitra commercial.. Cue former player “If that guy would have hit that field goal, his wife would have been all over him to celebrate, but this late in the season, performance on the field and off can be tough. When I played, Iused Levitra. And you know what ? When I had a 4 hour erection, I put that shit to work. I didnt call a doctor. Hell no. My girlfriend… I mean my wife, loved it ” scroll news ticker with disclaimers and warnings.
  Would you ever fast forward through a commercial knowing that the next one could be a classic ?
  And of course it would work for recorded shows as well.
  The show Las Vegas goes to commercial. We see a bunch of guys sitting around the living room watching Vegas. We see Mary Connell, played by Nikki Cox paused on the screen. Guy 1 with the remote “Would Yeah ?” other guys in unison:”Hell yes”. Guy 1: “She wouldnt give you the time of day unless you were wearing Rave. The all over fragrance that women like Mary love. (He tosses Rave Spray to Guy 3. Guy 3 looks at it and smiles knowingly”
Guy 2: (direct to camera): “Hey you. Step away from the remote. The Pistons beat the Heat 95 to 82. The Steelers beat the Bucs 19-13. The game just ended. Cool ? Ok back to the couch , and when your girl comes back from the bathroom.. say something nice “
  Now those are commercials that would keep peoples attention. You would never know exactly what would happen. 30 seconds of fun.
  Bring back the 50s to TV
