For whatever reason if I write about something in my blog, some people think Im mad about it. Im not. I write about the things that I would enjoy sitting down and discussing with someone else interested in that topic.
There are probably only three places on this planet where I actually do , or used to get mad and raise my voice. The first is on the golf course. Im the guy who would throw his clubs or bang them on the ground in anger after any of many misplayed shots. So i dont play golf anymore. I dont have the time or patience to spend hours practicing to get better, and I have less patience to spend hours playing. Im just not a fan of golf. I dont hate it. I just dont want to play it.
The 2nd was playing rugby. I played till my body wouldnt let me and I loved to hit and be hit. Getting mad helped me play. It takes a lot to get kicked out of a rugby match, but I managed to get booted for fighting playing for the Pittsburgh Harlequins.
The other is playing or watching basketball. Forget what has happened since I bought the Mavs, you could go back to me playing on my 6th grade basketball team, in high school, in rec leagues. I have a temper on the court. I wont screw up a pickup game by yelling the entire game. But, if there is a ref, and they are keeping score on the scoreboard, it brings out my temper. Dont know why. It just does.
Im the same way watching the Mavs play. I was that way before I bought the team. I am that way after I bought the team. I guess I expected a lot from myself, I expect a lot from the players and I expect a lot from the officials. I used to get mad at the officials. Now I know better. I dont get mad at the refs (with one exception), I get mad at the system. Ive spent enough time in the league , and have enough data to recognize where the system often (but not always), puts officials in a situation where it is very difficult for them to succeed.
This isnt to say I never get mad away from these situations, but its very rare. When i ran MicroSolutions, my first company, I would raise my voice with my partner. When I ran Broadcast.com, it happened far less often, but it happened. Today, i might send off a terse email now and then, but thats as far as I go. On the flipside, I actually like it when someone is passionate and prepared enoughto raise their voice to me. It doesnt bother me at all.
Which takes me back to all these people thinking Immad about things.
Im not mad at the TNT team. I actually really like Kenny and Charles. They are good guys. Ijust dont like the way they do their jobs. Thats my opinion.Thats what blogs are for.To write about whats on my mind.
Im not mad at a company when they do things differently than I would. Contrary to what the NY Times says, I wasnt mad at anyone. I made good money on that deal and was very happy about the way it turned out. It wasnt the perfect ending, but it was good enough.
Like I said earlier, I dont get mad at referees when Im watching Mavs games. I do get mad at the system in place for officials. Which is exactly what i told a room full of basketball refs last week at the Texas Association of Officials luncheon. They gave me a standing ovation.
Im not mad at the RIAA about copyprotection. I just think they are wrong. Being wrong has a negative impact on our entire society. So i said so. I financed the Grokster response to theSupreme Court. It didnt go as well as I hoped, nor as poorly as it could have.
Im not mad at Hollywood. Ithink they have opened the door for a very unique opportunity forour entertainment companies to excel with the day and date release ofmovies.
Im not mad at Donald Trump. I dont care what he says about me, how his show does, how much money he has, whatever. I do however have fun tweaking him when I get asked. Call it a guilty pleasure.
Im not mad at Google over Splogs on blogspot.com. I just though it was an issue that people in the industry needed to be aware of. As it hs turned out, it has increased the visibility of the problem and multiple companies, including Icerocket.com are working on making things better.
Im not mad at people that try to leverage me to get publicity by irresponsibly saying a movie HDNet Films released, The War Within, could some how be considered unpatriotic.Im not mad at the 100 people who sent me emails detailing how “me and everyone I know should die”. I simply pointed them to The Fallen Patriot Fund that I started and most emailed me back apologies.
Im sure there are other things that im supposed to be mad at that I havent listed here. Just so you know, Im not mad.
