My goodness Randy. How could you beat me to it? I thought we had an understanding? I guess you just have more flair and better timing than I do.
I can’t believe I did it and no one saw it or said anything.
It was at the one game we talked about doing it at.
It wasn’t going to be easy to do that one thing we talked about. It was going to be even harder to fake doing the one thing we talked about doing instead of actuallydoing that one thing. But there I was. Standing in that one spot, near that one guy, in front of those other fans, next to that one player.
I waited for cameras. Then I did it. I faked doing the thing we talked about faking doing instead of doing it for real.
It was amazing.
No one cared.
Which is exactly what should happen with this latest “Randy Moss Controversy”.
The last 2 days coverage of Randy Moss endzone celebration are going to go down in sports management and journalism school history. The media and people who made an issue about this are going to be embarassed for the rest of their lives with questions from their kids, their grandkids, their friends and their future peers.
We are about to enter an era where kids can do a search on google, icerocket.com, yahoo and other search engines and get all the video they want of TV broadcasts. Put in a topic. Boom. All the video you could ever want. Put in a name. There it is. Video and transcripts to go with it.
How much fun is it going to be to be sitting in a Sports Management or Journalims class starting next year when the Prof discusses “dealing with controversy” or “dealing with players in the spotlight”, or any derivation of the topic.
I can hear it now. “Ok class, I want you to pick a player that you think did or might have created some controversy in the past. Do a search and provide me video of the player and the controversial event.Then provide clips of how the media covered the event and we will discuss it.”
You know EVERY kid is going to pick Randy Moss.
“I picked Randy Moss for my presentation. This is when he faked mooning thefans in Green Bay after scoring a touchdown.” “These are all the media commentators talking about how faking mooning is terrible for theNFL and how RandyMoss is a disgrace”
The kids in the class go wild, laughing hysterically.
“Why in the world would people care if someone fakes mooning?” “IfI stand up right now and fakeda mooning, would I get in trouble?” “Didn’t they have anything better to talk about?”
Much of the media thinks Randy Moss should be embarrased. They have no idea that they are about to be “posterized”.
While Randy Moss will be able to laugh about the response and soon forget about it, those in the media will find their future peers snickering at them. “Hey, you’re the guy/lady that got all bent out of shape when Randy Moss faked mooning the crowd. It was a joke, right? You were kidding?about it. Right? Please tell me you weren’t serious…You were. Really?…that’s interesting. And you are supposed to be one of the better journalists of your time? Good for you. Must have been interesting times.”
We do live in interesting times. We are the first generation to memorialize everything that we do on video. We are entering the first generation that will able to search through all of that video and find what ever they want.
Future generations will thank us for the entertainment we are offering them.
