A couple years ago I got asked by the CBS Evening News to do an interview. They wanted to interview me just before a Mavs game and the reason I said yes (I saw no to 99.99pct of interview requests), is because they were curious as to what I was “saying” during the National Anthem before every game.
They had noticed that before every game I was “talking to myself” during the Anthem. On this day, September 11th, I decided to share some of what I say before every Mavs game, and on almost every day, and to also ask a question.
Here is what I say:“Thank you to all those who have fought before and are fighting now to make this country great. I will never take my freedoms or opportunities for granted. Here is to …. then I go through a list of family members and thank them and hope that they and their children are healthy, happy and can always look up at a blue sky and be thankful for all we have.” Then at Mavs games, I give thanks to all the players on the court , fans in the seats and hope that they stay healthy, happy and that the Mavs win. “
I dont ever want to take for granted what I have, what my family has and how fortunate we are.
Six years after September 11th, I wanted to also ask the question, what should we do for those who serve our country ?
Is The Fallen Patriot Fund enough ? Is it just about money ? Is it about politics ? Is it about time ? Are we as individual citizens just along for the ride ? Should we trust our elected officials and government to have the best interests of our servicepeople ? Is trusting the government in that capacity the wrong thing to do ?
Is generating discussion and inquiry a positive or a negative ? Should the marketplace of ideas, as it applies to the military and our government be expanded or contracted during a time of conflict and war ? Why is it that so many seem to speak so authoritatively when I have so many unanswered questions ?
I wonder how future generations will look back at these Post 9/11/2001 years. Will they see us as Enlightened ? Barbaric ? Confused ? 
I get emails every single day from soldiers and their families. All give me a sense of pride that they would want to contact me. All make me sad that they are at risk and I dont fully understand why. 
What should we as American citizens do to help, honor and serve  those who are serving our country ? 
